
       Prelude:TWINS
                                
Robert and his twin brother Delbert hated Terrell. It was a boring world. There was nobody here of interest. The real action was on Parsenla, even Kelendra would even do. All the people were on the mother planets, hardly anyone was here, they had only been settling it for fifty years. Graduation was a long six months away. They could hardly wait.

The two of them had always tried to do one better than the other, they were both highly competitive. Both had placed in the top five percent of all cadets in testing, Delbert had beaten Roberts score by only two points. Robert knew Delbert would never let him forget.

Graduating would mean they would likely get separated. They decided that would have to do because anywhere would be better than here. Life on the wilds of Terrell was no fun.

They were going to use the Home Guard as a test to see which one of them would obtain the highest rank. It seemed the obvious thing to a seventeen year old mind. 

Today started like every other day for the past year and a half. After washing and assembly they went to the mess for breakfast along with the other ninety-eight. It was the usual swill of porridge or flat cakes, fatty pork strips or reconstituted eggs, and bitter juice. It could make a person have second thoughts about joining at times. As usual they're friends Sarlo and Tyryn sat at the table with them.

Sarlo and Tyryn had been a pleasant surprise for the twins. Sarlo had come from a large family, Tyryn was an only child. Sarlo was loud and energetic while Tyryn was quiet and reserved. The twin made a Healthy average for the group.

"Hey, did you two sign up for the outdoor survival class?" Sarlo asked.

The twins gave a snort in unison and replied together, "Of course we did." Delbert finished with, "They say some hot shot expert is here to take us."

"I heard he was a mini racer... What is it... Oh yeah Jor Brady." Sarlo retorted. He then began shoveling the porridge into his maw like it was the first meal he had in days. Delbert wondered if he even tasted it, maybe that was the secret to eating the slop, either that or his mom was the worst cook in the world.

Tyryn took a drink of juice and looked to Sarlo as if seeing him eat for the first time, he seemed to turn green watching, finally saying, "How can you eat that, Sarlo?"

"In my house if you didn't eat it quick enough someone else would eat it for you. There were six of us kids. Besides with Ma's cooking it was better to get it over quick, kinda like medicine. Just get it done and get it done quick. Know what I mean ? What about you Tyryn? Did you sign up for the survival class?"

Tyryn looked from Sarlo and stirred his mush a few times before replying, "I hear they make you eat bugs." Then continued to stir then reluctantly took a small bite.

"Well", Sarlo said, " Did you wuss out on us?"

"No, I did not wuss out. Of course I signed up. Let you make fun of me for not going. Besides if you didn't, my brother would. It sounds fun, anyways." Tyryn went back to eating, which if possible, with even less enthusiasm than before.

Delbert and Robert looked to each other and smiled. Bugs were nothing, each of the other had always dared the other to eat odd things. Robert had once swallowed a small rock and Delbert had once ate a tub of grease. Both had emphatically refuse any kind of dropping. Maybe they could trick Sarlo into it, he seemed to not care what he ate.

"Hey Tyryn, Don't worry. It'll be fun. Trust me." Sarlo said.

"Trust you? Do you remember the last time I trusted you? I ended up with extra duties for a month."

"It was fun, you have to admit", Sarlo replied, he then slammed the rest of his juice and produced a huge belch, people from other tables actually turned to find the noise.

"Dude! Didn't your mother teach you manners?", Tyryn asked. " That smells nasty."

"Of course she did. I learned em good to. Like don't blow up the house, or don't steal your dad's car and crash it. Oh ya the most important." Sarlo then look around at them all, he needed to make sure his audience was paying attention then continued, "Never, ever ever! Give your Grandpa's dentures to the dog!"

Tyryn looked at Sarlo like he has never met him before. It was like a cat playing a horn in a band. "Well I guess you can call those manners.", he said in a way that sounded like it might be a dancing cat instead.

In the usual fashion, the four of them left the mess together and headed to the institute for classes. What wasn't usual was Captain Corbin and Sergeant Glassby waiting out side the mess for them assembling the ranks.

Each of twins took their places at the head of their squads. Sarlo fell in behind Delbert while Tyryn fell in behind  Robert. A few of the cadets were trying to whisper quietly, although it did not go unnoticed by the Sergeant, "No talking in ranks!", he bellowed. The Sergeant had a very loud voice and was not to be trifled with. Sarlo had already been taught that lesson, a wet night of digging holes and Sarlo never uttered a word in ranks or questioned orders. The twins had been model cadets, rank was not achieved by disobedience, there was no way either would lose to the other because of something so simple.

When the last cadet had joined the ranks the Sergeant eyed each cadet as if weighing them for the stew pot. After what seemed an indefinable amount of time he addressed the cadets, " why are we here?"

"To learn.", the cadets responded.

"I can't hear you! Why are we here?", he bellowed again.

"To learn!", they yelled with a little more enthusiasm.

"What do we learn?", the Sergeant asked.

"To fight!", the cadets rang out in unison.

"Why do we fight?"

"For life, love, and liberty!"

The Sergeant strolled back and forth eyeing the cadets again. "What I have to tell, will shock most. The next few days will likely define us as a civilization. As I continue please bear in mind your training. At three-thirty universal time approximately thirty thousand unknown ships simultaneously attacked Parsenla and Kelendra. All communications were lost in the first ten minutes of the attack." He paused and gauged the reactions. "We managed to deactivate the space gate at three-forty-five, however a handful of enemy combatants managed to make it through. We must go with the premise that our location is known to the enemy swarm. We must also take in account the fact that this, swarm appeared within three million miles without being detected on long range scans. We must assume that the enemy has knowledge of hyper light speed." He paused as if he was going to say something else but then decided against it.

Robert looked to Delbert for confirmation of what he was hearing. This couldn't be some kind of drill could it? Delbert was looking back his face was saying the same.

Sergeant Glassby abruptly stopped pacing. "I know what your thinking. Your asking yourselves if this a drill? Well it's time to drop your visors. This is the real thing." It was at that moment when the sirens went off. Several of the cadets seemed to pale.

He started to pace back and forth again, eyeing cadets here and there waiting untill the sirens stopped. He then continued, "That siren means more of  he enemy have been found. Normally evacuation would be a mute point, but in this instance we do have a place to go. By the hand of fate or luck, an improvement on space gate technology has been recently achieved. This gate is located here at the Institute. It has the ability to open a door anywhere with out the need of a receiving ring. As I speak a door is being opened on a newly discovered world that appears able to harbor life." He stopped again as if to gather his thoughts once more. 

The twins quickly looked to one another once more.This time they knew that the other was also thinking of family. Well that was a given, everyone was most likely thinking the same thing. Some of the cadets had came from the sister worlds. What was going to happen to them all? 

Sergeant Glassby continued his speech, " As you can see the Guard has gathered supplies for evacuation. We will assist the guard with this duty. You ask yourself about your family, maybe you want to stay, go to them and save them. You do of course have that option. It is an option that will kill you or enslave you. This enemy was unknown and unprovoked which means they do not have honorable intentions. Judging from the last communications they mean to destroy us. Once we go through that door there will be no return. There is not enough transportation to evacuate all of Terrell. There may not even be time for the nearby communities to arrive in time. It will be tough, it will be hard, there is no guarantee of safety on this new world. We have only soo many supplies here. After I dismiss you, you will have fifteen minutes to pack your gear. This is not a time to forget something. After you are packed I want you back here." The Sargent now raised his voice so the cadets knew he meant business, "Why are we here!"


"To learn!", the cadets responded less than lively, the Sergeant seemed to ignore it.

"What do we learn?", the Sergeant bellowed.

"To fight!", the cadets rang out in unison.

"Why do we fight?"

"For life, love, and liberty!"

"I'll see you here in fifteen minutes. Dismissed!"


Some of the cadets were milling about as if unsure of what to do. Robert decided that the best thing to do for the moment was to pack his gear. He was going to need it regardless of the choice he made. The right thing seemed to go and help his family, on the other hand, what exactly could he do? He was supposed to go to the hub and climb the ranks, not abandoned his family to whatever horrors were to come. Only having hours to evacuate seemed completely insane, surely the Guard could be wrong? Yes, they had to be wrong, surely they had days or weeks before they had to leave. The decision would be tough. On the one hand staying would mean certain death, or enslavement, or at least gorilla warfare. On the other hand escape could mean the exact same thing, the only difference was his family was here. The Sergeant had not said anything about someone already being on this new planet.

When Robert arrived at the barracks he noticed that he and his brother had been the first to arrive. He pulled Delbert aside to speak quietly to his brother. "Are you thinking what I'm thinking Del?"

"Probably not. I'm thinking Parsenla is out of the question now. But that's not what your thinking is it?

"There's no way we can save... Them. You know. Going through with the sarg's plan. Leaving every one behind to die?"

Delbert took a deep breath holding his brother's eyes in his own."Not sure Rob... Maybe our parents can get here in time? We'll have to see if we can call them. Let's hurry up and get our squads moving."

The twins began to pack they're few possessions. Robert packed his family photo, his deck of cards, and his Hank Dodgers signed ball. Delbert packed his photo of Grandma and Grandpa, his cup of dice, and his memory stick. You were only allowed as many personal items as would fit in a shoebox. No comm devices were allowed.

The twins were not surprised to find the other cadets ready in a hurry. Everyone from Terrell wanted to video home. The ones from Kelendra and Parsenla seemed saddened, they could not video home.

There had been a cart that had been placed outside the barracks were the one-hundred cadets placed they're kits and packs. This time Sergeant Glassby had been there and formed ranks before returning to the Institute.

The Sergeant had answered the video request by issuing comm devices to each cadet when they arrived back at the Institute. He had said the ones who could get closer should be able to get it. He could only give them a few minutes though because the velocity of the aliens would allow them to be in orbit in just under five hours. 

They would hold the tunnel open for as long as they could. Due to the fact that the Institute and it's remote local would likely mean that not many would come. The whole planet knew there was nowhere to go. They could only hide.

The twins wasted no time. Robert called his mother and father, Delbert had called they're older sister. They had reached received the same response, they had to leave. They had seen vids of the grim attack. They said if there was any chance of escaping they should take it.

By the way time the calls were over many cadets had tears, including the twins. Did they feel like they had received the closer the Sergeant had talked about? Well they had received the resolve from they're parents. Father had said he was grabbing his blaster and heading to the caves. He told them  to carry on with pride. Mother had said to find a nice girl. Natilla had told them to be careful, openly crying at the end of the call.

Robert took one last look at the Institute before entering a long  wide corridor heading into the foothill it was built. The building itself seemed to grow from the face. It stood ten stories at it's highest point. It was all windows and blocks of white stone. The windows glistened from the sun. 

As they entered he heard Tyryn mumble, " Looks like the descent into hell. 

Robert replied, "Or madness." He glanced back at the exit that was rapidly shrinking. "Tyryn this thing goes for hundreds of yards." It was about five yards wide a the same in height. The floor was smooth and flat.  The echos from footfalls gave it more ominous of a feeling. All he could think about was, why is this here? 

They stopped to the side of the hall next to a conveyor bin. There were stocked with plastic crates that had handles on each end. The bin held ten. Once Sergeant Glassby got the cadets attention and began," We need these crates that come from the conveyer to be unloaded. Squads one, two, and three" He looked to Robert, then to Sarbrecca, a tall girl with black hair, "will unload them along the wall then load the carts that the buggies and minis will bring. Squads four and five will follow me.

Robert found himself unloading heavy trunks as he watched his brother follow the Sargent down the hall. He didn't want his brother to leave, although he would never admit it. He decided he didn't like being a pack animal, these crates were heavy.

Delbert followed the Sergeant further into the unknown. The further he went the emptier he felt. This was all happening too fast, they had made plans. They were going to civilization, where there was fun and sun, moonlit beaches with black sand, not this pit of despair he was walking to. The competition between he and his brother had taken a back seat in his mind, it seemed so petty now.

The walk down the corridor seemed to take hours. The echo of steps was the only sound, nobody was saying a thing. All he had was echos, his breath and his thoughts. 

They finally came to a large room at the end of the hall a couple minutes later. It about ten yards high and about twice as wide and deep. It was brightly lit though highlighting the equipment that took all the space along the walls. There cable racks and pipes created the semblance of a maze. At the far side was a ring about twenty feet in diameter, the view inside was not a wall, but of sand and daylight. 

There were guard troopers unloading crates from a four carts, similar to the ones at the other end of the tunnel, onto the floor in a line on the floor ending at the strange ring. The troopers were connecting the crates together with straps.

The Sergeant stopped them by the carts. " You Cadets will take over for the troopers. Once an object goes through the ring it can not return, so we will pull the crates through from the other side so we can continue to use the carts here to collect supplies. We will stay on this side untill it is apparent we must leave. 

Delbert and the two squads of cadets watched the troopers enter the ring and emerge soon the the sand of an alien world, the trees had blue leaves even the grass among rocks were blue tinged.

Delbert felt he had to maintain the idea that this was a huge cosmic joke and he would wake up in his bunk. It had to be, he didn't want to never see his family again.

People started to arrive making the trip through to the other side. Most looked scared, others forlorn with down cast eyes. Delbert did not want to look in a mirror himself.

It wasn't long after the people came when  two buggies entered the room pulling four carts apiece. They disconnected and returned back up the hall. The Sargent had told them not unload these carts, they were being pulled through loaded. Delbert grabbed a strap and tied one end to the line of carts. He then threw the other end through the ring, he felt a humming vibrate his body as he got close to it. The people we're coming faster now. 

Robert continued his duty scanning cases, crates and trunks. It had been a few hours since he had heard the news. Having a comm device was not encouraging because of the reports coming in. Basically there was no news, the few enemy ships that had made it through the space ring had disappeared. 

It felt endless filling the empty carts attached to the buggy. It seemed as soon as buggy pulled away another was coming up the tunnel to be filled again. Every once in a while the monotony would be broke by a buggy pulling a single cart into the tunnel, they did not return. He wondered if Delbert was having more fun than him. 

Three hours later new reports began to arrive. The two battleships that were patrolling had been destroyed. He was just close enough to the entrance to hear the sirens go off again. The swarm had arrived. Two minutes later and all communication was down.

People were coming through the big door began to close. Sargent Glassby had been one of the people that came through and approached them. "Quickly, squad one finish loading the buggy then follow it. The rest of you follow me", he ordered.

Robert and his squad continued to load the last of two carts.Tyryn was watching the doors slowly shut while the other two squads were moving deeper into the hall.  "Come on Tyryn! Let's get this loaded. No time to daydream."

"Sorry squad leader. I thought I heard something."

It was then that Robert noticed vibrations. "Let's go people you can feel explosions probably from town." 

The cart was loaded but Robert looked to the other supplies on the conveyor belt. He hoped they would not need them, most of the supplies seemed to be food. 

As the buggy left, the was a rattle that shook the ground, followed closely by another.

Robert gave the order, "Move out! Double time!"  Then led them down the long corridor.

Roberts jaw dropped when he came into the large cavern that housed pipes, wires and machines. The oddest was the rippling ring that was surrounded by a corneal discharge with a ramp leading up to it.

Sargeant Glassby motioned them up the ramp as a rather large tremor struck. The ripple in the ring seemed to fuzz. "Get through the ring! Let's go!"

The hair on Roberts body stood on end as he approached the ring. A humming seemed to strum his body which gave him shivers. The haze was before his eyes as bone chilling cold in enveloped him as he walked through.

He found his self feeling somewhat lighter as he stepped onto a sandy environment. A trooper motioned him to the area where the other cadets were assembled. He looked over this foreign planet with its huge trees along the river, then to the desert like scene behind him and the ocean in front of him. Life on Terrell seemed like paradise to him now, he'd trade everything to have it back. Normality snuffed out, future unsure. This was a whole new ballgame.

/////

Captain Jessrick Carvelin watched the strange, improbable hole in the air. It was a twelve-foot-wide circle showing the lab on the other side. Stepping through it was definitely not impossible—he had done so only five hours ago. The large lab beyond shimmered, rippling like vibrations on water. Dr. Hawkins called it a Quantum Tunnel Doorway, but to Jessrick, it just looked like a hole.

He turned slightly, scanning the alien planet around him. For better or worse, this would be his home now.

The landscape was foreign—alien in every sense. To the south, a river shimmered with a bright turquoise hue. It was wide, about three hundred yards across, and flowed lazily eastward into the ocean. The river fanned into a large delta, creating little sand islands. Gentle waves lapped the shore. Along the riverbanks stood broad trees with massive leaves—each large enough to wrap around a grown man—colored a deep blue-green.

North of the river, the land flattened into a field of boulders, stones, and scattered blue grasses. Small hills dotted the horizon. The occasional patch of thorn bushes and clusters of spiky cacti gave the terrain an unfriendly, hostile feel. Jessrick thought there should have been more trees this close to an ocean, but they only seemed to follow the river inland, disappearing into the distance.

The last of the two buggies had just come through the Quantum Tunnel. It was pulling two carts stacked with vital supplies for the two thousand refugees. All told, they had two buggies and five minis for hauling. A buggy could carry four people and was powered by an electric fusion battery strong enough to pull a heavy load.

Among the supplies were nano cases—modular devices capable of constructing new buggies, minis, helicopters, or even fixed-wing aircraft, depending on how many cases were linked. The habitation units worked the same way, despite being no larger than crates. Each one had a selection panel for choosing what to build. Jessrick wished they had thousands of the things instead of only a few dozen.

In mere minutes, their old world would be gone forever. Return to Terrel was never an option. The tunnel only allowed one-way travel. Their choices had been simple: retreat—or face annihilation by the invaders, known only as The Swarm. No one knew where they came from, or what they were. Thousands of ships had descended on Parsenla and then Kelandra, destroying everything in their path. The odds of anyone still alive back there were slim.

Genocide. Extinction on a grand scale. It was hard to believe it was really happening. Humanity had reached the edge of ruin.

Any minute now, the explosions they’d planted would begin. The best chance for survival depended on hiding this escape. The first explosion sounded faint in the distance. The second was loud and clear.

It was time for the third—and final—blast. He hoped he wouldn’t hear it. He also hoped Dr. Hawkins had been right and there wouldn’t be a quantum implosion.

Jessrick let out a small breath he hadn’t realized he was holding as the doorway rippled, faded, and vanished. No implosion. Good. One less thing to worry about.

His thoughts turned to the poor souls left behind on Terrel. As far as he knew, the fate of humanity now rested with the people on this side of the tunnel—refugees. Sgt. Shelton Shores had reported a headcount: two thousand one hundred and fifty-three. That was all they’d managed to gather and bring through before the gate closed. Everyone here had been uprooted from everything they knew.

“Captain Carvelin, I want two minis to scout up the river. Have them return before dark. We won’t be able to stay here long—it’s too sandy. Hell of a place to arrive. Secure a perimeter about two hundred yards out, around the base of that small knoll.” Colonel Brandeshen pointed to his left at a low rise covered in bluish shrubs. “We’ll set up our base camp on top. The tents should go nicely around it. No one is to leave this area. I don’t want anyone getting lost.”

The Colonel paused as his gaze fell on the piles of supplies.

“Get some guards posted on what we managed to bring through. As soon as the perimeter is established, the Governor will want to talk to the people. I want everyone to stay inside the perimeter. Is that clear, Captain?”

The Colonel’s blue-gray eyes locked onto Jessrick’s.

“Yes, sir. Consider it done,” Captain Jessrick Carvelin replied.

“Good. Report back when you’re finished.”

The tall, stocky Colonel turned toward a short, gray-haired man in a blue suit approaching from the left. The Governor. He was followed closely by a middle-aged woman—probably the Lieutenant Governor.

Jessrick gave a crisp salute to the Colonel and turned away.

/////
Delbert and Robert had finally had time to breathe. The Sergeant had worked them like ship droids. They found themselves under the large canopy they erected earlier. There they found, the troopers  beloved chow line. Beloved, Ha! This was a stew, mixed potato mash and dried fruit.

Robert felt as if he'd thrust into some vid game. Hopefully some kind of dream, he had to awaken from yet. Too bad he thought. He knew this was real.

"Game on Rob! We have a whole world for us."

" Dell, we were trying to go to civilization. Not some." Robert gestured around. "Not some strange planet to die on. This is no game."

"You want me to cry. Do you need your momma? Do you need your blanky?" Delbert retorted. Delbert heard an "ouch!" From the table, he wasn't sure who it was. "I'm only joking. Gee eat your mush"

"Better than the sand I guess." Robert gave a quick snort. "I wonder if they're,going to work us till we drop. The troopers at least, seem to be worked as hard."

/////

 Chapter 2 Town Meeting 


Two-thousand people was quite a crowd, thought Governor Shaultz.  Those at the back may have trouble hearing. "Citizens," began the governor, It is times like these that emphasize the frailty of mankind. Our existence hangs by a thread. Instead of despair for yesterday, or anxiety for tomorrow, we will deal with today's concerns. Our census stands at two-thousand, one-hundred and fifty-three citizens. It is up to all of us to ensure our survival. Right now that requires shelter. The plan is to divide into four groups, which will be roughly 500 people each. Each group will have a military liaison to coordinate efforts. If you are one of the Academy students you will gather at the black flag, over there, after our meeting." he gestured off toward the ocean.

The governor continued, "I assure you all that I will continue to give the best of my service for you as I have always tried to do.  Our people have always been  dedicated and strong.  We will continue in this fashion carrying on our traditions and values." He paused and looked over the crowd. He was sure they felt the same punch to the gut sensation that he had now. "The good Colonel Brandeshen here," gesturing toward a tall, stocky, black haired man on his right, "needs help setting up these shelters. It may be a bit cozy to begin with but better than wet and cold. The soldiers have established a rough path around the knoll behind me. Please stay within the perimeter for the immediate future. This is for your safety. We are fortunate to have plenty of emergency  rations for now, these will be issued twice a day. Now, I will let the Colonel tell you what he needs."

Colonel Brandenshen stepped forward and looked around at the expectant faces. "As Governor Shaultz has stated, shelter is our priority right now. To facilitate this I will divide us into four rough groups. Starting here," he pointed in front of him. " Everyone to the left will be blue group. Please make a gap. "He turned ninety degrees and gestured again. "The people to the left will be green group." He continued around creating four groups. "This is Sergeant Daphne Frankles, she is the blue liaison. Those in that group will follow her to the North. Sergeant Carson here," he pointed at a tall, muscular man with strawberry-blonde hair, "will take the yellow group to the South. Sergeant Thorton will take Red group to the West." A short man with tan skin stepped forward as the Colonel gestured to him. " Sergeant Shores will help Green set up to the East. Each group will receive two permanent class A shelters. This is where you will receive your rations. Temporary shelters will be used for sleeping quarters. We will set these shelters in two rings around the inside of the perimeter. Once a day at noon, we will gather for news and information until further notice. Please remember to stay inside the ring. We have no idea what is out there. In what was three standard hours, meals will be issued. That is all for now, please follow your group liaison for further instruction."

As the people started moving in a lethargic manner, the governor began thinking about how this small population were the remnants  of billions of people. As he looked around at the dismal landscape, a feeling of despair consumed his thoughts. Surely they could of held that doorway open a little longer to give more people a chance. Feelings of dread consumed him as he thought about his wife who had been at her family's house on Parsenla. He could really use her comfort right now. 

He turned to the Colonel, who was talking to another soldier. The soldier brought his fist to his chest, with a quick nod and left. The Governor was not sure he wanted an answer to his question, but he had to know. " 

What do you think are the odds of our survival General?" he asked the Colonel.

"General?" the Colonel  replied. " Does that make you a king?" He gave a quick snort and looked around at the people.

" A king? No, I am just a representative of the people. It should remain so. But you, you are the highest ranking soldier, are you not?" The Colonel gave a nod of his head." It is only fitting to give you the rank of General. So, what are your thoughts on survival?"

"No I  I could not be the General. There are several of those... Specialist that are the same rank as me. They're Admin is an Air Admiral. No I do believe they would not like that. Anyways, Seems the least of our problems right now . Survival, is the focus." he paused as he took another look at the people." Most of these civilians sit in a cubicle all day and the rest, hide in dim rooms doing what ever it is they do. They are soft and untrained for survival. I suspect that many have never been outdoors in adverse conditions. If we don't lose too many to the elements. If we can find a permanent food supply on this world. Then we have the wildlife to worry about. Are we still the top of the food chain or something elses dinner? Optimistically I would give the odds of fifty percent." he said with a grimace. 

The Governor looked at the  Colonel and replied, " I heard a lot of ifs there. If those are your odds then I will be happy with them. You seem to give a modicum of hope."

/////
 Magnus intro

Magnus Cooper of average size, his light brown hair and short beard now appeared bronze. He was plainly dressed in a patterned colored shirt of browns and black, light brown khakis, and sandals, gave the impression of relaxed comfort. He recently found himself teaching geology to cadets at the Academy. It wasn't as exciting as exo-planetary studies, leaving Astro Sci was hard to do. Never the less he had reached lifetime rad limits. Standing on a chunk of rock floating in space in nothing but a suit was nothing in comparison to stepping through that doorway.

Dr. Hawkins had invented a fabulous device that unfortunately could never be used again. It was going to change exploration forever. It would of allowed scientist to look inside of stars, underwater on distant planets, or on the void of space without going anywhere. Travel in a vehicle would be the thing of the past. The doorway was now gone. Buried, hopefully under hundreds of tons of rock and concrete. 

Hiding from that swarm of hostile craft seemed the only chance of survival. The only video sent from the fleet showed that these aliens had appeared from nowhere destroying every ship in they're path. Hopefully, with any luck they were a thousand light years away without any knowledge of our location. 

He turned to Dr. Hawkins who was a short man, coming only to Magnus's shoulder, his hair once gray, now shined blue. His glasses made him look like some gnome out of the stories. Starting out hesitantly he asked," Is there any chance of returning home?" He knew the answer but needed to say something. This all seemed like a bad dream to him. 

"Huumph!" the Dr. Replied. As he removed his glasses and wiped them with a cloth he had produced from the inside of his jacket, he continued, " Not likely for generations, if ever. As we know knowledge can be lost and forgotten, disappear forever. There is always the chance for rediscovering it though. For better or for worse, here we are, blasted back to the stone age I'd say. What interests me is finding the length of a day and year here. Some would say time doesn't exist and is just a human construct, but we must measure it non the less. If time follows the duality principle then it has a wavelength, then that, we can break to study. Time most interesting, We must make a sundial, it's time to invent time." When Dr Hawkins got going in his lectures he could drone on forever it seemed. The man was brilliant but seemed inattentive at times. You would see him in the halls muttering to himself as he walked along. "Yes, a sundial is a must to compare time. We'll have the cadets help.


Magnus now turned to the cadets with looks that ranged from fear to excitement. " Our future lies with those students I suppose. What will we do with them for now?" he asked the wizened Professor, as he gestured to the students milling around the black flag.

Dr. Hawkins scrutinized the adolescents ranging in age from fourteen to eighteen. " Ahh.. yes, we must prevent they're minds from going idle. Give them something to do with they're hands. I believe the "Home Guard" will keep them busy."

Magnus looked to the Dr. And asked, " What does this mean for the Institute? I do not see Dr. Haggle or any of the board." The Dr. replied, "Cavemen have no need for Quantum mechanics or electo-chemistry." Magnus really did not want to be stuck in a classroom. His feet started to itch to explore this strange new world. He looked to those strange trees. Plants were always foreign to him, rocks on the other hand, were familiar to him. He looked from the trees to the rocks scattered around. They were good igneous rocks, a good granite type with extra large chunks of feldspar interspersed with well formed quartz crystals. He looked to the mountains in the far off distance that sparkled and winked like crystals. His feet definatly wanted to explore. How long would it take to get there, he wondered. It had been a long time since he had to walk anywhere.

Dr. Hawkins cleared his throat and began talking to Magnus, " I see that look in your eyes Magnus. Not thinking about running to the hills already. What would your students think?"

" I do believe the students would not mind. Half of my job requires keeping them awake. They're probably ecstatic about no classrooms. There was only one or two that were really interested in geology anyways. Besides I am the most qualified person for the job. No rads here to stop me and well... It looks exciting out there. We are probably the first people to step foot here. I'd rather die out there exploring the unknown, than die here."

/////
Chapter Rammit

Sergeant Daphne Frankles thought she'd found a less nerve racking assignment at the institute. Shipping and receiving for disaster relief had been very stressful. She never thought she'd be the one to experience a disaster first hand. Remembering that swarm of ships sent shivers up her spine. Witnessing the total destruction of everything in the swarms path had solidified her decision to escape through the "Doorway" to this newly discovered planet. The video feed sent by their sister planets had showed total destruction and most likely, complete annihilation for humankind. Thousands upon thousands of ships had swarmed those planets. Tragedy on a grand scale, more extreme than anything she had ever dealt with before. Well, dwelling on all that had been lost was not going to help her now, she thought. She continued walking her rounds completing another circle around the perimeter.

She gazed out at a desert-like grassland. Thorny bushes and spiked cacti grew in patches across the landscape. A river with large, broad leafed trees was off to the left of her current view. The leaves were bigger than any she had ever seen, maybe even the size of a blanket. She would have to get a closer look, she thought, her interest growing as they rustled in the breeze. It was odd to see the sun still out, mixing colors with the glow from the growing moonlight. The glow made the leaves appear to be a deep blue. The grass also looked blue, though not quite as dark. 

The early evening sky was a pale, nearly florescent, purple. Highlights from the sun mixing with the purple glow. The sun was only beginning to set,  although the two moons were now shining brightly overhead. One full and blue, the other, red and only a half moon, which looked like a red eye. The odd colors were a drastic change from the turquoise-green of the day.

 She took a deep breath and thought, the air smells kind of minty... well at least it smells nice she said to herself. A nearby voice broke the silence and said, "look Sarge, there is a weird rabbit type thing over there." She realized the voice came from Tayson. She had forgotten he was close, he was pointing towards the grass. As she tried to spot the rabbit thing, it's head popped up above the grass. "I wonder if we can eat it, probably would taste better than the rats we're eating," he continued. Then added, "are those horns spiraling around its ears? Yes, I believe  they are, kinda like those on a ram." Then he started laughing and said, "a ram horned  rabbit ha, it's a rammit, yeah that sounds like a good name for it."

Sergeant Daphne spoke then, saying" I would have to agree, it does look like a rabbit with ram horns, hopping around in the grass like that." She chuckled and added in agreement, "yes, I like the name, we should call it a rammit."

Tayson headed toward the rammit. It was only about 30 feet away. As he got closer he started reaching out like he was gonna try to catch it. Daphne shouted at Tayson, "No, you shouldn't  try to catch it, we aren't sure whether it's dangerous or not." But her warning came to late. The rammit leaped for Tayson and bit him on the neck, then hopped away, disappearing into the grass. "Told you so, when are you gonna learn?" She started walking  toward Tayson as he took two steps and then fell over. When she reached his side his skin was blueish and he didn't seem to be breathing any longer. Froze on his face were traces of a smile turning to shock. She bent down to check for a pulse that wasn't  there.

Daphne called out in alarm to the nearest squad members, "Paisly, Daryl, come quickly."
Private Paisley was a fairly tall woman with light brown hair and big brown eyes like those of a deer. She could probably chase one down with those long legs. Daphne was not surprised that she arrived first. She kneeled down for a closer inspection of Tayson. Daryl arrived then and Sargeant Daphne informed them about the ram horned rabbit. She finished her account of what happened saying, "then he reached out trying to catch it, that's when the thing leaped toward his neck and bit him. Apparently the thing is poisonous. You two bring him back inside the perimeter while I get base on the two-way to report this incident."

"Sergeant Daphne reporting to base, come in base," She keyed the two-way. "This  is base, go ahead Sergeant," Daphne keyed the mic " We have an incident to report, there has been an animal attack. Captain JessRick will need to hear this."
"Well your in luck Sergeant he just stepped in... hey Captain, you'd better hear this." JessRick's voice came over the two-way,"Captain JessRick here, go ahead Sergeant." Daphne keyed her mic again, "Captain JessRick, this is Sergeant Daphne, we've had an animal attack, and Sir, I am sorry to report the death of Private Tayson." She went on explaining the incident saying, "The animal looked like a ram horned rabbit and Tayson called it a rammit, then he tried to catch it. That's when it leaped for his neck and bit him. I tried to warn him not to but it happened so fast sir and well, he's dead Sir. I believe the rammit is venomous, Taysons lips are nearly black and his skin has turned blue. I have two Privates here with me, what should we do with the body, sir?"
JessRick said, "Just wait where you are Sargeant, I will be right there." He gave orders to a nearby private to get the Colonel and headed for the scene of the accident. 

After he arrived and looked over the body he gave orders to both privates to locate a battle buddy and scout for a suitable location to take the body. Captain JessRick stated, " It's rocky here so you may find a ravine to the west, near those boulders. Stay with your battle buddy while scouting, I don't want anymore accidents. The sun's setting so let's try to get this done before full dark."   The Colonel and Governor arrived then and the Colonel added, "Privates if you see any animals shoot first ask questions later." Private Paisley replied, "Sir, yes Sir," The two privates turned and headed off. Sergeant Daphne and Captain JessRick gave a salute, fist to chest and a nod, to the Colonel and nodded with respect to the Governor. Governor Shaultz said, "What happened here Captain JessRick? This man's all black and blue." Then the Colonel said, we will need the full account of this incident. JessRick replied, "Sergeant Daphne here was with Private Tayson at the time so I will let her tell you all about it." 

Daphne stepped forward and began explaining the events leading up to the death of Private Tayson. "When he got close enough to catch the thing, he reached out toward it and that's when it leaped up above the grass, launching itself at his neck. It bit him and hopped off, disappearing into the grass. This ram horned rabbit must of weighed forty pounds," she said shaking her head sadly. "Sirs, I would like to name the creature, Rammit in honor of Private Taysons discovery and loss of life. I think he would like that, feels like the right thing to do."

Colonel Brandenshen said, I don't see a problem with your request, Sergeant, it's official this ram horned rabbit will be named Rammit, in honor of the private Tayson." Governor Shaultz interrupted, saying, "Forty pounds you say, with ram horns... venomous bite...I had better go talk to my assistant. The people will need warning and a reminder to stay inside the perimeter we've established. Colonel I would like to have tomorrows town meeting just after breakfast, would you have your privates help inform the people, please. With a tragic death already,  I think it would be wise." The Colonel looked to the Governor, "Of course Governor Shaultz, that's a good idea." He turned toward JessRick, and said, "Let's make it happen Captain." With a last look at the dead private the two of them headed back towards their quarters.

JessRick looked at Daphne and said, "Those privates better hurry, daylight won't last long." 

Daphne looked in the direction the privates had gone and spotted a figure sprinting towards them. She pointed toward the figure and said, "That could only be Private Paisley, with those long legs she could probably outrun a deer."

 JessRick said, "Wow, you may be right, never seen anyone run so fast." When Paisley got there she wasn't even puffing very much and definitely not out of breath. "Your speed is impressive Private, I'll take that into consideration when I need a runner," JessRick said. 

Paisley replied with a laugh, "Fine with me sir, I love to run, I find it's quite invigorating. Well sir, we found a good spot to take poor Tayson. You were right Sir, there are a few small ravines over there. The other privates are gathering rocks and stones for a cairn. Private Daryl went to get a stretcher. He should be here shortly." 

JessRick replied, "Well done Private, I think you and the Sergeant can handle  the burial. Be sure to get back inside the perimeter before full dark. If you don't get the rock pile high enough we can cover him better in the morning. There may be more aggressive predators that come out in the night. We will wait til morning to say our farewells for Private Tayson."

"Yes Sir, Captain Jessrick," said Paisley. Sergeant Daphne added, "consider it done sir."

JessRick said, "I will leave you to your task then, Sergeant, he gave a nod to the private." The two soldiers gave a salute, then the Captain turned and walked back into camp.

While they waited for the stretcher, Daphne began thinking things over. She was tired and a little frazzled after the days events. Making a cairn to bury one of her squad members was the last thing she wanted to be doing. Less than a day and the first death had to involve her. She had been trying to get out of stressful jobs, tired of all the anxiety that came from dealing with disasters and tragedy. She sighed and took a deep breath, I am gonna have to set my feelings aside and be the dutiful soldier.

Private Paisley spoke softly, pulling Daphne out of her melancholy thoughts, saying, " It sure has been a terrible day Sarge, ending in yet another tragedy. I sure hope tomorrow is at least a little better." Before Daphne had a chance to respond, Daryl showed up with the stretcher. Private Daryl said, "Sorry I took so long Sarge I had a time locating the stretcher in the jumble of supplies."
Daphne replied, "It's ok Private, we haven't been here long enough to get things sorted. However darkness is approaching so we had better pick up the pace and get this done." Sure thing Sarge, we got this." 

The two privates lifted Tayson onto the stretcher. Daphne said, "Let's move out privates." The three of them proceeded to the site for the cairn.

Upon arrival Daphne was surprised to see most of her squad members gathering stones. She addressed the squad saying, "Well done troops, we should have this done in no time."

 One of the privates spoke up in response, "Sergeant, when we heard about Tayson we all wanted to help, he was one of ours and we all liked him. Always found something to laugh or smile about. He kept us going when things got tough."

That made Daphne recall his laughter when naming the Rammit. "Yes, he did have a way of always finding something to laugh about," Daphne replied. "Let's get him covered privates. We can all say something about him while we work."

Daphne looked down into the ravine which was about five feet deep. The squad had placed some boulders for steps so the stretcher could be carried down more easily. They also had piled rocks next to the ravine and a stack was down in the ravine along one wall.

Paisley and Daryl carried the body into the ravine. Daphne said, "I will start with Private Taysons last laugh." She drew in a long breath and cleared her throat. Then she began, sadness apparent as she spoke. "Private Tayson and I were walking our rounds when he spotted an animal and pointed at it. Excitedly he said to me, look Sarge, there's a weird rabbit type thing over there." He smiled as the creatures head popped up. "I wonder if we can eat it. Probably tastes better than the rats were eating.  The animals head bobbed up above the grass again. Kinda looks like a huge rabbit. Are those horns spiraling around its ears? A lot like those on a ram," he added. He started laughing then continued in his smiling ways, a ram horned rabbit, ha, it's a rammit, yeah, that sounds like a good name for it. I agreed with his name, for it did look like a ram horned rabbit. He headed towards it and reached down to try and catch it. I warned him not to but it was too late. The rammit leaped up, bit his neck, and hopped away, disappearing into the grass. He took two steps and fell over dead. I rushed to his fallen body and checked for a pulse, there was none. His skin was blueish and froze on his blackened lips were traces of a smile turning to shock." Tears came to her eyes, threatening to stream down her face and she sniffed a few times to stop them. One tear managed to escape despite of her attempt to contain it.

Private Paisley spoke softly, saying, "It's all right, Sergeant, we're all sad. This whole day has been the worst day ever". Everyone had tears brimming in their eyes and murmured their agreements.

Daryl was the next to place his stone and speak. Followed by Paisley and so on it went until everyone had their say.  They placed their stones, saying farewell and stepping away to make room for the next person.

Daphne stepped down into the ravine. She took a final look at Private Tayson and placed a large flat stone to cover his face. She climbed the boulder steps out of the ravine, walked several steps, then stopped and stared out into grass. 

It was getting darker but the large, light blue moon was full so the moonlight was bright enough to cast shadows. The sun was still barely above the horizon. While scanning the grass she thought some of the shadows were moving about. Focusing on those shadows, she saw the many accompanying sets of eyes all staring in her direction. They seemed to be pacing back and forth. She noticed that more and more eyes were gathering until after only a few minutes, there must of been thousands of eyes. Drawing in a surprised gasp and turning back to the gathered squad, she announced,  "Privates place your last stones on the cairn right now. We've got an audience and they look aggravated. We need to get back inside the perimeter immediately."

The privates all looked in the direction of her gaze. Multitudes of eyes moved in and out of sight as they went behind cacti and thorn bushes while pacing. "Wow, Sarge, I never seen so many eyes. I'm gonna get a picture of them or no one will believe it. There must be thousands of eyes staring at us." said Daryl. Paisley added, "Yeah, and they do seem agitated," I hope they don't charge us."
Daryl unclipped the two-way and held it out in front of him. He steadied his hand and got a snapshot. Then he quickly took another just to be sure he got a good one. "We have our evidence now Sarge."

Sergeant Daphne spoke then, saying, "Let's not wait to see if they'll charge. We're getting out of here, double time privates." The privates who were still in the ravine climbed out quickly. All of them took a last look at the thousands of eyes. Oddly the eyes started to disappear one pair after another. The accompanying shadows turned and moved away, fading into the distance. "I really don't want to know why they left, but I'm glad they did." added the Sergeant.

Just as they began heading toward camp, a strong gust of wind blew by. Then the rumble of thunder, followed by lightning and another gust of wind. They all picked up the pace, lengthening their strides. The thunder and lighting intensified. The wind began to blow ferociously. Then the rain began pounding down, drops so big they stung when they hit. Daphne nearly had to shout to be heard above the noise of the sudden onslaught, but the squad heard her say, "I think we know why the animals left in such a hurry. Let's jog the rest of the way in."

They came to a stop in front of their shelter and formed a rough line behind Daphne. They didn't waste any time getting inside. Once inside, the loudest rumble of thunder so far shook the ground. One of the privates said, "That sounded alot like evil laughter." Another added in agreement, "Yeah,  kinda creepy, an evil storm on a strange new world, what's gonna happen next."

"Speaking of creepy things happening, what was with all those animals giving us a stare down. They sure seemed pretty upset. I wonder if they would have charged us, if this rowdy storm wouldn't have blown in," Paisley said questioningly. "Let's see your pics Daryl, come on, please," she added. Several others saying things like, yeah and come on." finally someone piped in with, "We all want a look, Daryl."

Daryl then replied, "All right, all right, I got the first picture on the screen now. Just let me get a look and I will pass it on. I do think the Sergeant should get the first peek after me and he stepped toward her. He said, "Wow, I think that must be the Rammit you described, Sarge. Here take a look."

Daphne took the two-way and looked at the screen and said, "Yep, that's a rammit. Extra large hind feet, fluffy cotton ball tail and although the ears are smaller than a normal rabbit, they still look like rabbit ears. What is different is these things must weigh around forty pounds and have the horns of a ram spiraling around their ears. See for yourself, this pic shows it off nicely." Then she handed the two-way to Paisley, cause she was closest.

No one had a chance to give any input. An extremely loud explosion shook the ground with such a violent force that any who had remained standing fell to the ground. Blackness encompassed their minds and the whole squad fell into a deep, unnatural sleep.

/////
  Chapter Storm

Jor left with Tarlen along his side. Tarlen had been his friend for a while now, They had been on three missions together. Tarlen had proven  an asset in the past. People noticed him. He was tall dark and muscular. The man was a fitness junky at times. He doubted anyone could beat him in a race or in the ring. He was a good partner for this mission.

Their mission was to scout the river upstream for as far as they could go, or find some other way to the hills in the distance.So far the terrien of gullies and cracks had stopped any way of travel away from the beach. The mission along the coast had not made it far when the terrien became impassable. Following the river was the only way possible to go, so far as they maneuvered along the flat ground running along side the murder trees.

It was fine with Jore, he'd rather be exploring then hang around here. Admin had picked him because of his experience racing minis, well that was a part of why he was picked.. He laughed inwardly think anyone could ride these minis, they were slow, made for running errands around the complex. Slow as they were he was happy to do it.

Having only one way out did not make Jor comfortable. It was always wise to find more than one way out.

Jor never wanted to sign up with the guard but his father was adamant about it. His father had said, " Every Brady, for ten generations had been trained in the guard. Your great grandfather was a hero in the Hikoren rebellion. He saved thousands!"  His father had promised his father, who father had had promised his father to continue the tradition. His father had threatened to disinherit him, if he didn't join.He was half half way to telling his father what he could do with his inheritance, but he did not want to break his mother's heart. He soon resented his former feelings about the joining the Home Guard, he had found good friends that he called his 'brothers'.

Thinking of his parents made his pulse quicken, were they all right back on Parsenla? Would would he ever know? This felt, like some great cosmic joke or nightmare. It was just happenstance that he was on Terrell at all. He would of been home in another 10 days, surely they could of been a big help fighting the invaders.

They had never found evidence of other sentient life in the galaxy untill it had found them. That had had been a very bad thing for everyone. What will they find here? They'd only discovered this planet in the past couple months ago. Surely they could hide on this planet, if nothing killed everyone first. All they had to do was remain hidden, build some type of shelter and hope the seed bank and cryo zoo work as planned. All that of course depends on the climate here. It looked dry to jor as he glanced once again to the desert like scenery, there were a lot of large thorn bushes painting the landscape in odd hues of blues, browns, and greens.

Turning to Tarlen he asked with a smile, "Do you think you can keep up with me on that puny thing?"


Tarlen smiled an uneasy smile," I hope I don't break it. I wanna get away from here, something odd about this place. It's like, well, feels like something's watching, just waiting to pounce. I felt more at ease on Kelendra in section nine. Know what I mean Jor?"

"It's probably that people are watching everyone. They are all looking to see  who's going to crack first. Making it feel like your being watched. What I wonder, is what we're going to find out there. Sergeant Shore's got us large blasters, PX elevens actually."

Jor finished strapping the repeat arrays to the racks of the two wheeled mule. The mule was connected to the small four wheeled mini that they would ride along their journey. They would leave leave these arrays along the way as they went. It was the only way to extend communication, until SATCOM was completed . Then they would have GPS and satellite imagery. SATCOM would of course make the repeaters obsolete, although they could not wait the three days till it came online. They needed recon now.

 Jor hoped that they would be able to go the hundred miles or so that repeaters would allow for ground based communication. 

The mini would theoretically run for about ten years or so until the battery would need to be replaced. You could of course break it, Jor had destroyed one or two himself. He knew minis, these minis were about to be abused. That, of course depends apon how far the can go on them. They might hit thickets in an hour and be stopped. The terrien was tough looking away from the river

"Jor, any bets on how far we make it? I don't  think we'll get very far on these things. First place we need a bridge is going to stop us. We could find miles of thicket like on Parsenla, a person can't even walk through that stuff."

"Where's that tribal spirit your always bragging about?  I for one am excited, don't go all girly on me now. What are are some some kind of how do you say it, Masasusa?"

"Mahasusis, nice try. Better watch out or I'll turn you in to a Cho'leya! Girly? I'll show you girly. I'll race you there on foot and carry you when you collapse from exhaustion. Take this puny thing and throw it at you, if you don't stop laughing.Ha! Let's get out of here. Smells like feet."

Jor who was smiling like a dog that found a new bone."Try not falling of that thing." Tarlen just grunted as he got on his and took off along the river.

Jor himself wondered the same questions that Tarlen had asked.  Tarlen made the machine look tiny as he sped off. It could pull the load but it would be slow.

The scenery remained the same as they followed the river. It was easy driving on the sandy ground driving around occasional stones and boulders. The view to the right was a dreary as ever.A person would be challenged to get anywhere on foot. The same gullies running parallel to the direction of travel were scattered with brush. The brush, was littered with long thorns and blue flowers, those thorns looked mean,they were four inches long. The tips were bright blue that turned into a blue deep and dark, almost black as it got closer to the branch.

The same trees along the left continued on. It was still hard not to look at those trees occupying the hill that lined the river. One time he swore he saw one move a branch or vine. The trees were huge, some would require twenty or thirty people holding hands to encompass it.

Jor would of had fun, on his machine back home, on the little hills and mounds that could of launched him a good little way, if nothing else he could get to where they were going a lot fast than these machines will. If it got too thick it could stop them cold. There were areas of rocks that they had no choice but to crawl over and through. 

They stopped when the odometer show they had gone ten miles. This was were they  placed the first comm booster and checked in. After taking a quick break for water, it was cool almost cold with a slight breeze, they resumed they're journey. The sun seemed to be blazing down. There was not a cloud in the sky.

Jor found that this ride was relaxing. It was just man, machine and terrain. It was about the here and now, no yesterday or tomorrow, just the now. It was pleasant, no one was shooting at him, no angry mobs who only crime was hunger. Yard by yard his thoughts melted away. He realized he didn't care about where he was going, it was all about the journey. Every yard was somewhere new, a place where no one had gone before. He was an explorer, off to wherever, it really didn't matter any more. So far the way was relatively easy if you stayed near the river, flat and mostly sandy as it was.

It took another hour before they arrived at the twenty mile mark. It was there the scenery changed. There was a creek that flowed from a small lake several hundred yards from the big river. It was surrounded by moss covered trees with green leaves. With all the blue of the plants, the green seemed to welcome him, reminding him of home.  The creek flowed over and around rocks creating a soft gurgling noise. The water itself was a clear light blue. Jor decided the lake was a spring because he could see no stream leading to the lake.

Several small colorful birds flitted amongst the green trees surrounding  the lake. Upon the lake floated plants with big leaves. Every once in a while the surface was disturbed with a ring of ripples, caused by what could of been a small animal, or possibly a fish of some kind. Maybe this planet wouldn't be so bad, this lake was pleasant enough.

The lake had reminded him of camping with his grandfather and cousins. His grandfather had insisted the four of them needed to learn outdoor survival. He remembered how bad he wanted to go before he was old enough, but once he went the novelty quickly wore off. He found it to be wet, cold, and uncomfortable. His grandfather was what people called hardcore. Often on these outings, the  only food they ate was what they could find in the wild. A week with grandpa would make you never want to go again. Inevitably you would be back with him on his next outing, usually somewhere more inhospitable than the last. Looking at the landscape around he will wondered how inhospitable this place was compared to those trips. Silently he thanked his grandfather for those lessons, he felt he was going need them here.


After they assembled the repeater the two of them returned to the missions of scouting. Admin seemed pleased at the progress they had accomplished. They had ground-com extended and there was a source of clean water.

The trip onward was much the same as it had been, the same gullies and thorns to right with the murder trees on the left as the continued there way upstream. It actually bored Jor riding on this snail of a machine. Top speed was only about twelve miles an hour. He felt good about averaging ten miles an hour. Well slow or not, they would find out what these minis were capable of. Looking over to Tarlen, he saw a smile. Well at least he was having fun. Jor had a feeling it would not be there when they went another forty miles or so, forty miles on a mini could make anyone stiff. Jor could feel his own shoulders getting sore. 

Thirty miles later they had stopped once again to stretch stiff bodies get a quick relief and grab a quick bite. The land scaped remained the same minus the lake. The sun was still far enough the horizon that they decided to continue on. Jor wanted to get at least forty miles if they could before stopping. The headlights on the minis would enable them to go as far as they wanted. The only real danger was falling into either a thorn bush or gully. Admin had relayed information about the "Murder Trees", so maybe stay away from them to.

Jor was beginning to wonder if they would make it camp before it rained. Clouds, the like of he had never scene before, were starting to collect in the sky. They had rainbow colored hues that seemed to slightly memorize him. Glancing to Tarlen, he noticed he was also looking at the clouds with a frown on his face.

The wind had become so intense that it was blowing sand causing a dust storm so bad that they had to stop and take refuge between the minis. The sand was starting to sand blast the carbon fiber making it dull and pitted. The last thing Jor remembered, was hoping the minis would not be blown away before a shock of thunder nocked him to the ground and turned out his lights.


/////
Jessrick
As dusk approached, Jessrick sat on a stool across the travel table from Colonel Brandeshen. All day they had been discussing options with the Governor, ultimately agreeing to send out a recon team inland to search for minerals, metals, and a more defensible location. The landing site was nothing but sand, rocks, thorn bushes, and scattered tufts of blue grass.

This place didn’t feel right. It gave him the constant sense of being watched—like a predator was lurking in the shadows, waiting for an unwary victim. The strange trees, oddly colored grass, and venomous rabbit-like creatures made it feel like a nightmare no one would wake from.

Finding food before the rations ran out was paramount. Everyone was hanging on by a thread—and that thread was food. Were these rabbit-things edible? Would they have to eat the blue grass? Growing crops in the sand seemed nearly impossible.

Jessrick wondered what season it was here—summer, spring, fall, or winter? It was cool and dry, with a steady breeze. The sky was pale green, scattered with small, puffed clouds. That would take some getting used to. He remembered someone explaining the color change had to do with the sun's wavelength and particles in the atmosphere.

They had managed to get quite a few tech items through the tunnel. Among them were the nanotech Ultra-domes, enough nano-boxes to complete a four-person Heelow and one Monster Buggy. The crates were so large they took six men to move. You chose a level spot, activated the Ultra-dome, and it began to expand like a bubble. The nanites would take three days to complete the structure using carbon nanotubes. There was also a cryo-seed bank containing fruits and vegetables from the three homeworlds—and even a cryo-zoo.

The current plan was to send two "fists" with Magnus, an ex-AstroSci explorer, to follow the river upstream. Magnus had recommended heading toward the distant mountain range. They would take a buggy pulling a supply wagon, with two minis for support. Governor Shaultz had suggested everyone go, but the new General had dismissed the idea. Now was not the time to march two thousand people into unknown terrain.

Inside the makeshift headquarters tent, fusion-powered lamps cast faint shadows on the walls. The permanent shelters wouldn't be finished for seventy-two more hours. The only comfort in the entire situation was that the Swarm hadn’t followed. Jessrick wondered if a swift death might have been better than slowly succumbing to starvation or exposure. The planet was colder than expected.

Was that thunder?

Another low, muffled boom silenced the chatter. It sounded... sinister, like an evil laugh. Then came more—louder, more frequent, paired with unnatural flashes of red, yellow, and white lightning that lit up the tent.

"I guess we'll find out how well these shelters stand up to a storm," Jessrick muttered.

The General looked at him. "Scared of a little rain? I thought nothing could rattle you."

Jessrick hesitated. “No sir. It’s just... it came on too fast. Doesn’t feel natural.”

Another crash of thunder silenced them. Then a sentry stuck his head in through the flap, voice shaking:
"Sirs... you need to come look. There's something wrong with the clouds."

Jessrick and the others stepped outside. The sky was ablaze.

Lightning lit up the knoll in unnatural colors—red, yellow, and white. Above, a band of clouds churned like boiling water, racing overhead at unnatural speed. The wind grew stronger, nearly knocking them over. Jessrick stood, stunned by the eerie beauty and terror of the scene. Then the rain turned to hail.

Suddenly, a section of the clouds peeled away and formed a massive face—eyes glowing red, mouth twisted in a grin of ecstasy. Screams erupted as the crowd scattered. Then a shape like a hand began to descend from the sky.

A high-pitched buzzing filled Jessrick’s skull, like a swarm of bees. The cloud-hand slammed into the camp.

The ground rushed up—or maybe his face rushed down—it was hard to tell. Then blackness took him.
Jessrick’s Dream (Tightened and Corrected):

Stars filled the inky blackness of space. They looked familiar... yet foreign. One star swelled, reddish in hue, not the white-yellow of Earth’s sun. A blue-green-brown planet emerged, and as Jessrick fell toward it, pain surged through him. Screams and growls tore through his ears. He gagged. The closer the planet got, the worse the agony became. It blotted out the stars.

Then came the feeling of falling. His skin felt like it was being peeled away. The clouds rushed toward him, faces emerging from the mist, all grinning that same awful grin, laughing at his pain. Hands reached out to slap him as he fell.

He broke through the bottom of the clouds. The ocean loomed.

The chill hit him like a wall. His thoughts slowed. He plunged into the icy water, paralyzed by cold. The deeper he sank, the more sluggish he became. Luminescent light revealed the ocean floor. Terror took root.

Then—heat.

Musty, moldy smells filled his nose. Pressure built around him like a fist crushing mud. He wanted to die, just to escape the torment. But then—he screamed inside himself:
I will fight to live. I will live to fight the foe of death. It cannot have me!

The warmth intensified. Strength returned. The pressure eased. Hope—new and fragile—ignited like a spark and grew into a flame.

The soil liquefied, releasing him. Tunnels of energy danced around him. He felt the heat of creation—a supernova birthing new worlds. That explosion changed him. Twisted him. He knew nothing would ever be the same again.

Then sleep took him—the deep, exhausted sleep of someone who had survived a long, harrowing march.
/////

 Lillian

 Morning Day Two

Lillian looked around the small tent that fit the four of them. She glanced at Gladius, who had taught music at the Academy. She was a large woman , not huge though, just a big girl. She had dark brown hair which shone a little differently on this new planet. Everyone's eyes now sparkled brightly. Gravity felt a little less here. It was definitely cool out.

Gladoius usually had a kind smile on her round face. There was no smile now, instead a look of uncertainty clouded her face. Lillian could not fault her, for she felt apprehensive also. This place gave her the shivers, she wanted to run away from here. The tent that held them, seemed to be the only comfort on a strange new world. It hid the alien landscape from her eyes and gave her a shelter among friends.

Her focus changed from Gladius to Serenla, once the school counselor. Her usual look of calm patience had been replaced. Feelings of uncertainty showed on her face as well. She was an older lady whose gray streaks now shined blue and she was inspecting the color shimmering throughout her long hair.  The once straw colored hair was a pale metallic green now. 
Finally she focused on Karmela who was her closest friend. Kamala was usually a boulder that could not be budged by any force. She was struggling to keep a stolid presence, her smile apparently forced. The two of them had been through thick and thin together. Kamala had been the rock she needed when her husband had died in the explosion which killed so many on the launch platform. Lillian confessed "There is much to get used to, but at least we have each other". She asked Karmela, "Do you think we can make it on this world? Will humankind be able to rebound without all our technology"? Karmela looked to Lillian and replied, "Yes, I do believe so. We can overcome, no, we must overcome this challenge to continue human existence". At that moment Lillian saw the familiar sparkle of determination in her friends  eyes that gave her the comfort she desired. Iron willed determination,  "Ahhh." she sighed, "We have been through much together, I agree, we can get through this too."
Then, Gladius piped in, "You always have been optimistic, I hope your optimism is contagious. I'm afraid my apprehension will get the better of me. Everything that used to bring me comfort is gone. All the concerts that took me away from my troubles, gone, my bed, my house, my family, gone. I'm in this small tent which makes me feel claustrophobic". Then she began to cry, "I don't even have my coffee maker to help me wake up". 

Serenla went over and sat beside Gladius. She put a comforting arm on her shoulder and brushed the hair from her tear streaked face. Serenla spoke softly to her, "Gladius, I too am worried. We'll need to find comfort and strength in each other. I'll be here for you if you're here for me. I also hope Karmelas optimism is contagious, we will surely need it. I really need to believe, we all do. You brought your guitar and maybe a few of your students managed to bring an instrument as well. So your music isn't really lost", she said with enthusiasm. "I have been to your recitals and always thought you played lovely. As for this tent, we'll not be in it forever and the coffee, well, we shall just have to find something else to brew".

 Gladius wiped tears from her eyes, flung her arms around Serenla and hugged her so tightly that her eyes seemed to bulge. Lillian thought she heard Serenlas back pop. She sighed, thinking of her beloved espresso machine and wished they were all having a cup right now.

Lillian was fondly remembering her own home back on Terrell, when she noticed the tent flapping as a sudden gust of wind blew outside. That came on too suddenly, She thought and began to rise. Then the crack of thunder rumbled loudly, sounding eerily like evil laughter. "Guess we shall see how well this tent holds up," she said, shuddering. 

Karmela responded to her shuddered words, saying, "The Colonel assured me these things would withstand hurricane force winds". She glanced around the flimsy looking walls that fluttered more and more with every breath. Each new gust growing in strength. Flashes of lightning lit up the tent producing ghastly shadows on the walls. The thunder rumbled so loudly that Gladius said, "Reminds me of a bass drum out of sync from the rest of the orchestra."

The flashes from lightning were now a constant light and made the shadows come alive in an eerie dance. The four of them looked to each other and shivered. Serenlas voice wavered as she said, "Wow, I've never been in a storm as strange as this feels... oooh so creepy, she shivered uncontrollably, and added, that last gust brought a chill to the air."

"On a world as strange as this it does not shock me," Karmela said, trying hard not to show fear. "You wouldn't be shocked if you were blown off a cliff, Gladius retorted. Sometimes I think you would jump off just to experience it and prove your bravery." "As a matter of fact, your absolutely right. I certainly would do just that, only I would use a glider", Karmela chuckled, nodding her head enthusiastically. 

Thunder shook the ground so forcefully that it made their ears ring. They all rose in unison and went to the tent entrance. Hesitantly, they peeked out, total darkness surrounded them. Lillian was about to say something when the loudest explosion she had ever heard rumbled intensely and shook the ground with extreme violence. Complete blackness encompassed them and they all slumped to the floor, falling into a deep, unnatural sleep.

/////
Jessrick awakes
Jessrick stirred, his cheek pressed against mud-caked earth. His body ached as though he’d been torn apart and stitched back together. The cold was the first thing he noticed—seeping through his soaked clothes, burrowing into his bones. He blinked, the ground swimming in and out of focus before solidifying into a blur of twisted shapes and shivering bodies.

He pushed himself up on trembling arms. Pain lanced through his muscles as he sat up, the world around him slowly coming into view. Scattered figures lay in the muddy field, groaning, coughing, some unmoving. The air smelled of wet ash and something faintly metallic.

He turned his head. Colonel Brandeson lay nearby, just beginning to stir, a low groan escaping his lips as he tried to sit up.

Then came the memory—like a crashing wave.

The storm. The face in the sky. The hand. The fall. The ocean. The soil. The heat.

Jessrick gasped as the fragments of his dream—or was it something more?—slammed into his conscious mind. He doubled over, clutching his stomach as a deep shiver racked his frame. His skin still felt scorched from within, like something had kindled itself inside him and refused to be extinguished.

He wiped mud from his face and looked up at the sky, which was now deceptively calm. No red lightning. No screaming clouds. Just the eerie stillness after disaster.

What happened to us? he thought. What happened to me?

He took a deep breath and turned his focus outward. Survivors were starting to move. Tents torn. Supplies scattered. No sign yet of the monstrous shape that had descended upon them. But something had changed—he could feel it in the way the wind now brushed against his skin, in the strange undercurrent of awareness humming at the edge of his thoughts.

He rose unsteadily to his feet and went to help the Colonel, trying to push aside the lingering echo of the voice that had screamed within him:

I will live to fight the foe of death.

///// 
Lillian  awakes
Lillian opened her sleep encrusted eyes to the dawn of a new day. Slowly she got to her knees, picking herself up off the tent floor. The dream she had was still fresh in her mind. She shivered as she recalled the strange experience. She saw Karmela on the floor nearby and shook her awake. She woke with a start, eyes popping open widely. "Wow," was all she said.

Lillian rose to her feet and stretched her arms upwards. "Feels like I slept for a whole week" she spoke quite groggily and yawned loudly. "Can't hardly wake up", she said, shaking herself vigorously.

Serenla slowly lifted her head saying, "What happened". Then she got to her knees while yawning and continued to rise to her feet while she stretched. She glanced about then her eyes grew wide and she appeared to be frightened. "What's wrong?" Karmela spoke with apparent concern and glanced around the tent. She then knew what was wrong. Gladius was no longer in the tent. "Where is Gladius"? She said with an alarming tone. Serenla managed to squeak out," maybe she just went out to use the restroom." Then Lillian added, "Let's go look around, hopefully she'll be ok, after that storm and all of us blacking out, I am worried."
However, when they opened the tent flap they saw no tracks showing where Gladius had gone. Lillian was surprised by this and said, "We had better go get help to search for her." 

They headed towards the command shelter. A few others were stepping out of their tents and looking around, wide eyed, fear apparent on their face. Lillian looked to Serenla and asked her, "Will you and Karmela calm the people and take them to go check on the students? I will go tell Captain Jessrick about Gladius and see about a search for her. Reassure them and try to keep them from panicking." Serenla nodded and looked around.

When she neared the Captains shelter he was already outside speaking with the Colonel. Lillian spoke up, "I apologize for interrupting gentlemen, but my friend Gladius has apparently gone missing, she left no tracks as to her direction. I would like some help to find her, maybe a search party?" She asked. The Colonel replied, "Captain Jessrick and I were just discussing that very issue. I assure you we will have a plan shortly. In the meantime you can tell others in your color group to pack it up and gather at your flag. We are already sending the Sargeants to their flag. You should gather with your students when your packed."

/////
Jessrick stood just outside the command shelter, arms folded tight against the morning chill, listening as Colonel Brandeshen reviewed the early reports. The two of them hadn’t said much yet—both waiting for the fog to clear in their minds and in the camp. His clothes were still damp, his boots caked in grit. He hadn’t changed. He hadn’t slept. He wasn’t sure anyone really had.

A hollow emptiness tugged at his gut. Something wasn’t right—not just the aftermath of the storm, but the quiet. Too quiet. The kind that didn't make sense for a camp full of nearly a thousand people waking up after a night like that.

Crackling static burst from the nearby comm panel, and a sergeant’s voice broke through.

“Captain Jessrick, this is Red Flag Unit. We’re missing two cadets—names not on the morning check. No sign of them leaving their tent.”

Jessrick stepped to the unit, thumbed the switch. “Acknowledged. Confirm no signs of forced entry or departure?”

“Confirmed, sir. Tent was sealed. No tracks.”

Another call came in moments later—Blue Flag reporting a missing pair of civilian support workers. Then a third report, this time from Green. Jessrick exchanged a look with Brandeshen, both men now stiff with attention.

“This isn’t a coincidence,” Jessrick muttered.

Before Brandeshen could reply, a familiar voice approached. Lillian.

She came up at a quick pace, breath short, worry etched into her face. “I apologize for interrupting, gentlemen,” she said, “but my friend Gladius has apparently gone missing. She left no tracks as to her direction. I would like some help to find her—maybe a search party?”

Jessrick nodded slowly, registering that this made the fourth report in just a few minutes. Before he could respond, Brandeshen addressed her directly.

“We were just discussing that very issue,” he said, voice calm but clipped. “A number of people appear to be unaccounted for. We’re organizing a formal headcount. In the meantime, please inform your group to assemble at your color flag for roll. The sergeants are already en route to begin collection.”

Lillian gave a concerned nod and turned to go.

Jessrick exhaled and ran a hand through his hair. “That’s five separate reports now. We need to know how widespread this is.”

Brandeshen tapped his comm again. “I’ll have all units initiate priority roll calls—names, eyes-on verification only. No assumptions.”

Jessrick stared out over the stirring camp. A few dozen people were gathering near the color flags already, blinking against the pale light of dawn, shifting nervously, whispering. Some cast glances toward the horizon, as if expecting more lightning. Or worse.

Brandeshen swore under his breath.

“I don’t think this is just a case of people wandering off,” Jessrick added. “Not this many. Not like this.”

He kept his voice low, but the tension in his shoulders said enough. He didn’t want to panic anyone yet—but panic was brewing, slow and steady, like a storm behind the hills.

“I’ll take point on the missing list,” Jessrick said. “When the headcount’s done, I want it in my hand—personally. I want names, dates, tent assignments. If anyone shows signs of memory gaps, disorientation—anything—flag it.”

Brandeshen nodded. “Understood.”

Jessrick turned toward the gathering groups. His face was calm, but his mind was already racing. Something had happened last night—something more than wind and lightning. And if they didn’t act quickly, it was going to happen again.

/////
Robert woke up with his head on the mess table. The canopy we gone. That storm had ripped it away. Others were beginning to come awake as well.

Sarlos head came up and a grin began to form. He pounded his hands on the table and exclaimed, "Wow! That was wild! Did you guys see that?"

Tyryn looked like he was going to loose guts. He was pale. "You are mad Sarlos.

Delbert was feeling the excitement in his bones as well. That was better than any immersion game. "Sarlos, I hope you remembered your manners." He said dryly. 

Sarlos dropped his jaw with a deadpan look in his eyes."Ha ha. No. No dentures any where, I did remember the dog in that... Whatever it was. What about you guys?

Robert was nodding his head. He looked on guard, like he was waiting for something else to happen. Then replied, "Yeah That was... Strange to say the least. Wild is definitely one way to describe it. At least we're alive. Looks like more work to me.

/////
Chapter Magnus Oracle 1
Magnus awakened on the floor of the tent. As his eyes found focus,the shape of Oren came into being. He was standing over him looking at him like a predator looking at his prey. Next to him stood the biggest cat he'd ever saw. It was about twice the size of Oren. It just looked at him and gave it's tail a single flip. It gave single flip of the tail, as it just stared at him.
"Yumm.... tasty yes it is.....ummmm! Yes a chosen. " Oren half growled at him.

"What did you say Oren? " . Magnus asked. Not sure if he should move or not. He was not sure he could get past the cat. Oren got down in a squat and just continued examining  him like a strange bug."Let's go outside Oren."

"Outside? What is outside?" Oren replied. "Do... Not belong . Must leave." Oren continued. He started picking and pulling at magnus's clothes. 

Magnus pointed toward the opening saying "Outside the tent. What's wrong Oren? Did you bump your head? Snap out of it Oren and stop playing games. Quit picking at my clothes and step away from me!

"Away.... Yes away. You must go away! You do not belong here. Outside you say. Outside you say...Yes we go.". Oren stood up and went outside. The cat followed him. Magnus breathe a small sigh of relief.  Oren had definitely blown his boosters. He got up and followed them outside.
  People seemed to be waking up, they lay scattered all around the ground. Mud, all over they're clothes.  "What is it?" Oren said as he began looking at different individuals. Turning to Magnus he said "Yes, you must make them go. Away... away you must all go. You do not belong."

"OK. Calm your thrusters Oren, it's  ok."Magnus said as he looked around for help. People were definitely noticing the cat now. Some were just standing in shock it seemed. There he finally found a uniform. He was already on his two-way."What's with the cat Oren".

"Oren... What is Oren?" It replied.  Magnus  was starting to think of Oren as an it now. It definitely was not acting like Oren.

"You. You are Oren." he said, then pointed at Oren. 

"Oren ... yes Oren I am not. I am Everything. Yes Everything  I am. You though do not belong. You must leave." It said. Magnus now firmly believed Oren was gone, main board fried, circuits blown completely.

"Everything. What's up with the cat? Is it going to attack us" Magnus said as the cat just sat next to Oren.

"Cat. It is cat. It is here. He is guard. He made choice. You have choice. Yes, yes a choice you must make. Your choice." Oren said. There were now a handful of uniforms gathering a few dozen yards away. They were carrying their rail guns. Magnus realized they were aiming the guns.  Magnus motioned with his hands for them to put the weapons down. The cat was starting to give a low growl, fur beginning to spike. The hair was rising around the head making it's head appear bigger.

Magnus asked "Is the cat nice? Our friends over there are getting nervous. It's scaring people."

"Ah. Cat will not eat you. Is pact. " Oren replied.

"That's good to know." Magnus  said raising his voice a little to be heard he began."The cat will not attack. Just please don't do anything dumb. I'm still alive after all." Oren started walking toward the uniforms, the cat close on his heals. Magnus decided he was going to follow Oren, even though everything in his being wanted to get as far away from Oren as he could.  Curiosity and a sense of responsibility dominated  his thoughts and so he followed.

Oren turned toward the soldiers, the cat keeping pace beside him, tail twitching. “You do not belong,” he said, voice rising. “You must go. Go away from here.”

Magnus followed, fighting every instinct to run in the opposite direction. A mix of curiosity and responsibility kept him tethered.

A new figure approached from among the gathered soldiers—Daphne. She walked with calm confidence, her eyes locked on Oren. Her voice, when she spoke, was soft but firm.

“You’re not alone, Oren. We’ll go. But not like this. First, you need food.”

“No settle,” Oren hissed, backing up a step. “Must not settle. Must move. Must leave. Yes.”

Daphne stepped closer, unafraid. “Yes,” she said, “we’ll leave. But not hungry. First, we eat.”

The cat gave a soft chuff and settled at Oren’s feet, seemingly appeased for the moment. Oren blinked slowly, tension unwinding from his shoulders.

Magnus exhaled, realizing only now how tightly he’d been gripping his fists. He glanced at Daphne, gratitude and uncertainty mingling in his eyes. For now, things were holding together—but barely.


///// 
 Daphne oracle 1

Daphne was not sure what she thought about this situation. She had been givin orders to babysit this lunatic. He kept smelling and touching people. Not to mention the four foot cat, that padded along with him, always flicking that damn tail. People were definitely avoid him. He kept saying we had to leave. Well, I have news for him we have no where else to go.

"Everything, where are we supposed to go? Where kinda lost around here." She asked him just to keep his attention.

" ahh... yes lost? Lost it is. Haha.. yes yummy. Trapped like prey you are. But pact say you safe. So yes, you go." It replied. 

"Go , where do we go." She asked, not really enjoying anything about this day. There were dead people. Two-hundred dead at last count. 

"You must, follow " It said. Yea she decided this was an it, it didn't feel Human at all. It was now squatting  on the ground. Ever once in a while flicking it's tongue like a snake. It stared at people as if trying to figure out what it was it was seeing.

Keying her two-way " This is Sergeant Frankles , to base. This guy's looks hungry. Couple ration packs would be good. He might find it curious at the least."the reply came back as " This is base, copy last request. We'll  get you some chow.". It stood up and got closer. "What is voice? Say go away! "It howled. It was getting irritated it seemed. It was now pacing back and forth muttering all the time"Go away " and "Must go." With an occasional "Do not belong" a" Dangerous ",thrown in every now and then.

The food had finally arrived. A nervous private came up with a couple rations. It stopped pacing and started staring at him. The cat stood up and took notice also."Here you are Sir. Anything else that you need?". The private said.

"That is fine for now. You can get back to base", Daphne dismissed him with a gesture of her hand. She began to open a pack. As she pulled out a Nutrabar, "Are you hungry? Here eat this", she offered the Nutrabar to him. 

He eyed her for a second then took it. He began smelling it. Daphne  pulled one out for herself and took a bite of hers and chewed.

He looked at the bar in his hand, eyeing at it suspiciously he smelled it once again then took a bite. He now was staring at her. He began to to chew vigorously a few times then swallowed. He immediately put the rest of the bar into his mouth.

"Take smaller bites or you'll choke." He was chewing it, his eyes getting bigger as he chewed.

"Must go!",  he said before grabbing for the bar that was in her hand. 

Daphne let him have her bar. Troopers called them bug bars, it was easier to not think of what they were made of, besides  with the drool starting to run down his chin she had suddenly lost her appetite. Eating seemed to quiet him at least.

He never seemed to stay anywhere long. He ran around the tents telling everyone close enough to leave. Time to distract him before he started scaring people, they were obviously trying to avoid him.She offered him a water bottle for a distraction  "It's water. Drink some." She took a drink of it and offered it again. Was he house broken? She wondered to herself.

She was Feeling like she was dealing with a new alien species that was making first contact.  This place felt wrong some how. Yes, the madman was right. They would have to leave and find new sources of food. These rations won't last forever. 

"What is it", he asked while pointing out a man with a chainsaw. He was going towards one of those monster trees.  She wasn't sure she was brave enough to try that. Those trees were strange. The leaves seemed to move following the sun across the sky. "A man with a saw."; she replied.

"What is... saw?, it asked. This was going to be a very long day, she thought. The man reached the tree and started the saw. The extreme quiet they had , now held the buzz of a saw.

"What's it... Doing with saw?" Oren asked. Daphne replied" Well, I he's going to cut that tree." Orens eyes  got large as he sniggered" It is, choice."

As soon as the saw, made contact with the tree, the branches moved to the man with alarming speed. Branches and vines  pulled it's victim into the air and pulled the man apart, the pieces of him were thrown about. The saw quickly disappeared as the roots drug it into the soil.

Daphne's eyes grew as large as the madman's' while they watched the gruesome scene unfold before their eyes.  "That was the wrong choice for him" she shuddered.  "Yes, Oren agreed. "You see, must go, we move". 

She noticed Magnus approaching, he kept looking toward the tree, an ashen expression  dominated his face.. Apparently Everything noticed Magnus as well. He began walking toward the man muttering "Chosen.... follow them, we must".  

She followed after shaking her head , wondering what was to come next. He was picking up his pace now to meet with him. The man looked hesitantly as Everything approached " Chosen ", it screeched. "Must get them to go", then began bouncing and pacing around. Once more he muttered "You do not belong.. 

Must go."

"Go where" Magnus said hesitantly. He Looked to Daphne like he was asking for help. Oren pointed to Daphne and said" Chosen knows"

"He says follow the river. He seems to be getting more erratic and impatient. " Daphne responded.

/////
Magnus Oracle 2
Magnus looked at Oren who was once his friend at the Academy. Oren used to be the Engineering professor. He missed his fun friend that now acted so strange. "Oren..", Magnus began,he was interrupted by what sounded like  a bark and a hiss combined." No Oren. Is gone! Must go." It said.

Magnus took a heavy sigh and stated" Your body is Oren. We can not call you everything. You seem to be some kind of thing, but not everything." Oren eyed him suspiciously raising one eyebrow. "No Oren...It is choice.... must go." Magnus put a hand to his head as he slowly shook it. Oren was definitely mad. The cat that followed him around gave testimony to the fact , that Oren was not mad, it was simply not Oren anymore. He glanced at the mess under the tree, shaking his head once more, he said "Poor Paulter."

The thing that was Oren no more asked, not taking his focus off Magnus " Poor Paulter... what is... Poor Poor Paulter?"

Magnus shook his head again. He seemed to be doing that a lot lately. Then he responded, "The man that tree killed was Paulter." He pointed toward the tree that seemed to be quivering still.

"Poor Paulter.... yes... yes... It was choice." Oren said with a gruesome smile on it's face. "Must go!", he barked out again.

Magnus took a step back, he didn't feel safe around him, that smile gave him shivers. He looked to the cat, it was taking turns looking at people flicking it's fluffy tail. The cats presence spoke of unnatural events.  Trees simply did not rip people apart. "We will go when we're ready. We just can't leave. There are things that need to be organized and gathered.", he said, wondering if Oren would understand.

Oren began pacing back and forth stopping every once in a while, he looked around at the tents and the few brave people risking being seen by the cat. He then walked back to the sergeant. Licking it's  lips, it Hissed "Tasty... Yes tasty.."

Magnus thought Oren was going to start eating the Sergeant. He was uncomfortably close to her. She reached into a ration pack and pulled out a pouch. She opened it and took out a piece of dried fruit then offered it to him. He greedily snatched the fruit from her hands, then shoved the whole thing into it's mouth. Smacking his jaws loudly, with drool running down his chin. Magnus shook his head again. That definetly was not Oren. Oren had been cultured, his hair was always neat, his manner refined. 
This man before him, was neither cultured or refined. He was more animal like than a man."Tasty.... Tasty...", he said as he held his hand out again. The Sergeant quickly pulled another piece of fruit. With a grimace she handed over the food. As before he put the whole piece in his mouth, then proceeded to chomp loudly, looking back and forth between him and the Sergeant. It swallowed, what appeared to be a huge bite and muttered" You do not belong... must go... " He was now staring directly at Magnus licking his lips. He began once again" Must go... do not belong... yes, dangerous... Dangerous it is." He began glancing around again with a scowl on his lips and what sounded like a growl escaping him mouth. The cat had now got up, from where it was sitting and began pacing  about, flicking it's tail more frequently now. No, the cat was not tame. Magnus began wishing he was anywhere but here, even a broken down ship with busted boosters seemed better than this. Oren was getting irritated now it seemed. His rant was getting loud and angry. He stopped wandering , stopping again in front of Magnus and proclaimed " Must go. Must go. Must go!"

Magnus looked to the Sergeant and asked " How soon can you be ready to leave Sergeant. I think it's time to go."

"Yes... must go. Go now, Oren said as he got down on all fours and started hoping around like a a rabbit or frog. Then he stopped, stood up and starting shifting his weight from foot to to. He was taking turns staring at each of them.

Sergeant Daphne Frankles looked to Oren and said" My pack is ready... but our friend here is not. We should get him his own pack with his clothes and roll up. Is there anything else in the tent we should grab for him.

Magnus gave a small snort and replied," I doubt he would care about clothes or bedding " He looked at Oren who was now stretching his shirt up to his nose, sniffing and inspecting it. Magnus watched as he got it stuck around his head.  Arms flailing in the air, Oren dropped to the ground, then proceeded to roll around emitting grunts and growls. The cat stopped the flicking  of it's tail and gave a low growl. Neither Daphne nor him made a move, both eyeing the cat, unsure what to do. Eventually Oren had managed to get the shirt untangled, off his head and he stood back up. There were pieces of the shirt in each hand. He was looking at the shirt as if it would come alive, finally dropping the pieces to the ground. With a grunt he asked" What is... it?" He asked, while pointing at the pieces. Magnus looked at him then at the shirt as he tried not to laugh. " It was... a shirt." He was still trying to not laugh as he looked at this man that was covered in dirt with hair gone astray, his eyes looked like he wanted to start attacking the shirt again.

" No shirt! " Oren grunted as he eyed Magnus again. There was nothing funny about those eyes that were boring into his skull.

Magnus forced his eyes away from Oren and glanced over to the tree. There were small animals with furry tails dragging parts of Paulter up into the tree. It seemed no one was brave enough to collect him. Magnus was now thinking that Paulter got off easy with a quick death. 

He turned back to Oren and said, "Come on man. Let's get you another shirt" Orens eyes narrowed and responded with " No shirt... must go." He began pulling at his pants in an aggravated manner. "No shirt!" He began pulling more frantically. "No! Leave your pants on man. You can't run around naked." Oren looked up to Magnus, "What is... pants? No pants! No shirt!" Magnus refrained from shaking his head, a part of him wanted to laugh hysterically. "Yes pants. Yes shirt. Yes we must go. So we need to get ready." Oren looked to him, " Yes, must go. Go now?" There was a glint in his eyes as he looked back and forth from Magnus to Daphne. "Follow  me Ore... man. Let's go inside the tent and get your things so we can leave." Orens face took on a look of confusion, "Yes, follow, must go."

After a little more prodding, Magnus finally got Oren into the tent. It was like herding cats, he had the attention span of a rock.

/////
Paisley oracle 1

Daphne was developing her own plan for Oren. The Captain had only said to get him food and get him settled. She did not need to personally babysit this animalistic Oren. There would be no settling him until they headed up river. Paisley and Daryl could alternate caring for this "Everything," the once Oren, now called himself. She had a feeling this task would take two people from what she'd seen so far.

Daphne saw Paisley nearby, she was viewing something on Daryls two-way. "Private Paisley come here please, I have an assignment for you." Paisley turned, immediately at attention, she approached quickly, her cherry brown hair shining brightly in the morning sun. "Yes, Sergeant," she said with a salute. Daphne held up her finger in a gesture to wait and said loudly, "Private Daryl, I'll need you also." She waited a moment for him to get closer. His hair seemed to be a different color than she remembered, well that was not important right now. "I have an odd task for you and Private Paisley. I want the two of you to watch over and care for this strange new Oren. Magnus should be bringing him out of the tent shortly. I know he acts weird but I think he knows something about this place and he just may end up helping us once we get him figured out. You can use the digipad to show him pictures of whatever you need him learn about. He seems to like that. I am counting on the two of you, to keep his pants on and everything else," she laughed. "I believe you witnessed the shirt incident, we can't have him running around naked, creeping everyone out. That may be hilarious to watch but he could get hurt, thorn bushes, sharp rocks and well, clothing helps protect us," she said, her tone now serious."

"Yes Sergeant, keep his pants on, giggled Paisley, and everything else," bursting out with unhinged laughter. She slapped her knee and laughed even harder, "that was the funniest thing I ever saw. His head stuck in the shirt nearly wrapped around his head fighting for all he was worth to get it off." Her laughter increased but she somehow managed to continue speaking, "Like it was a matter of life or death, man versus shirt. How did he manage to get it tangled so thoroughly around his head? Than rolling on the ground til he ripped it off... and the look he gave those tattered pieces, whooo, if looks could kill."

Daphne cut her banter short. "That's enough private, get a hold of yourself!" She scolded, "that man has lost his identity and he was a close friend to poor Magnus in there. You will keep your wits about you private." The Sergeant shook her head saying " This is a serious matter. You need to keep your focus. We still haven't learned if he's a danger or not. It's hard to say what will set him off. So far he seems to be be ok. Now, I have a meeting with the Captain. I'll check back in when it's over." Paisley gave a sharp salute, fist to chest and a nod of her head, "yes Sergeant, I apologize, won't happen again, Sergeant." She remained standing at attention as Daphne left.

Daryl looked at Paisley and said, "she was a bit hard on you, it was really funny, guess she's got a lot on her mind." Paisley said, "well I did get a little carried away. After everything that has happened I am a bit frazzled." Daryl replied, yeah, I hear that, this world gets stranger by the hour. I bet everyone is a tad frazzled or worse." He looked at the drag marks leading away from many of the tents. "I wonder what happened to them all, or if we will find anyone." He said, questioningly. Paisley added a question of her own then, saying, "I wonder how much man is left in that Oren character he acts more like an animal. What is he gonna need to learn again?"

They heard a rustle from the tent and Magnus emerged with a proud Oren in tow. Oren had his hands on the shoulder straps of his backpack and walked with a strut to his steps. He said, "yes, we go, must go," and motioned toward the river. "Yes, yes go, he added while nodding, a broad smile on his round face. Magnus replied, "we will go soon Oren, everyone needs to get their backpacks on. Now I want you to meet Daryl and Paisley, they will be helping you get food and whatever else you need." Oren looked the two of them over, his gaze stopping on Paisley. Then he smiled and said, "tasty... chow?" Paisley smiled back at Oren and said, "yes, tasty chow." Daryl added, "You're not hungry already, are you Oren? Sergeant Daphne just got you some chow before she left." Oren shook his head back and forth and muttered, "no... no chow... go, yes... must go."

Magnus interrupted Oren hoping to keep him from getting upset, he began speaking calmly, "Oren why don't you look at pictures on the digipad while the others get ready to go." He looked at Daryl, then Paisley, and suggested, "if he grows restless you could try to get him to practice with the fasteners on his backpack. Maybe after that walk over a bit closer to the river, inside the perimeter of course. I still have some things to do before we leave, so... good luck." He smiled and went back into the tent.

"Hey Oren, take a look at this," Daryl said. He turned the digipad slightly so the screen was angled toward Oren. Oren stepped closer to get a better look. He raised his eyebrows and said, "cat... not cat," looking at his guard cat  then shaking his head, adding, "no... not cat." But Daryl said, "yes Oren, this is a cat. There are many different kinds of cats. Here is another, look, this kind is called a lion." "Oh, yes, is cat," Oren responded with enthusiasm. Daryl continued showing him all the types of cats. When he ran out of cats he showed him a chicken and said "these are quite tasty." Magnus came out of the tent with his backpack.

/////

Lillian meets Oren/Oracle

Lillian knew it was time to check on the students. No telling what the state of being they were in. It was a shock to find out that many others were missing along with Gladius. She hoped none of her students were among the missing. On her way to the students, Lillian saw Oren walking toward her. His gait was odd and predatory similar to that of the huge cat padding alongside him. She froze in her tracks at the sight of the cat. She was relieved to see Magnus and two soldiers in hot pursuit of Oren. 

Oren stopped uncomfortably close to her and began sniffing her hair. He stepped back nodding in approval and began muttering "Chosen, yes, must go, must leave, dangerous... don't belong...poor Paulter". Magnus spoke up and introduced Lillian, "Oren this is Lillian, Lillian meet Oren." Oren responded, "Chosen yes, must go," nodding at Lillian. Magnus repeated "this is Lillian." Oren said, "Chosen Lillian" and smiled broadly. Lillian looked a little confused as she said hello to Oren and Magnus, then asked, "what's this Chosen must go he is talking about?" Lillian continued to keep her eye on Oren. He seemed to understand then and said "Hello Lillian". She nodded to Oren then stated "I am on my way to check on the students, I really must go". Orens eyes lit up enthusiastically and He turned toward the river and then back toward Lillian. "Yes, must go," he stated excitedly. Lillian started walking towards the students area. "If you want to keep talking you had better follow along." Oren started following her. He continued to mutter yes must go and other similar things. Magnus started after and stated "I guess we are coming too," he chuckled. "So far you are the fourth person Oren calls Chosen... he calls me chosen also. All Chosen must go. According to Oren everyone must go up the river."

Lillian responded, well I have had enough of this shoreline, scary storms... missing people, venomous rabbits and oh yeah, killer trees. Yes, let's go try our luck somewhere else." Then she spotted a little girl wandering around calling for her mom. When the girl noticed the cat she let out a high pitched squeal. She stood their shaking and shivering. Lillian told Magnus and Oren to stay where they were and headed for the girl. It's OK, now come with me, you wont be alone anymore, you don't have to be afraid, just stay by me you will be just fine. Come on Mauri, we will see if anyone has seen your mom." Mauri took Lillians hand and they proceed towards the rest of the students. Lillian saw Karmella and Serenla. When she reached the two of them she asked, "have either of you seen Mauris' mother? neither of them had. 

Karmella asked, "What did the Captain say about a search for the missing?" 

Lillian said, "They are searching for them as we speak, he will tell us about it once everyone is gathered at our first meeting spot.  See Mauri others will help look for your mother, even Captain Jessrick is making a plan. We will surely find your mother soon, Don't worry."

"OK," said Mauri smiling at this reassurance. Just then a butterfly with vibrant purple and pink swirled wings flew past her and landed on Oren. The cat batted at it, but Mauri squealed, please don't hurt it, I love butterflies." She came a little closer to Oren then stopped and eyed the cat warily. 

Oren looked at the butterfly and started heading slowly toward the little girl. He was nodding and smiling at her. She stood there apprehensively but did not move as he approached. He leaned over and sniffed her hair, then nodded, saying, "yes, must go." He stepped back and looked her over, all the while the butterfly remained on his arm. 

Mauri asked hopefully, "Can I hold the butterfly, please...I am Mauri, what's your name? You're funny."

Oren said, "everything" holding his arms out to his sides, hands palms up. He was swaying around gesturing at his surroundings.

Magnus spoke up, "Hello Mauri, He is Oren, and I am Magnus. Oren, can Mauri hold the butterfly?" Magnus took the girls hand and guided it gently to the butterfly, saying to her, "very slowly slide your hand under it." The transfer was a success. Mauri stood there proudly, Butterfly in hand.

She looked at Oren who was staring at her and thanked him and Magnus. "Most butterflies won't let you hold them. I only ever had one land on me and I try to catch everyone I see. She gazed wonderingly at the butterfly amazed to be holding one at last.

/////
Promotions 
Jessrick sat quietly at the small table next to Colonel Brandeshen, pushing the last bite of his ration bar around the tray. The silence between them wasn’t uncomfortable—more like the quiet that comes after something you don’t want to name. Outside, the camp was unusually hushed. Even the wind seemed to carry softer today, as if unsure whether to disturb the fragile calm.

“They keep saying it was a dream,” Jessrick murmured without looking up. “But I’ve never heard of so many people sharing the same dream. Same thing. And now... two hundred missing.” He shook his head. “This world doesn’t want us here.”

Brandeshen didn’t reply right away. He was staring at the wall, the lines around his eyes etched a little deeper than they had been the day before. “We’ve confirmed a hundred and twenty-eight so far,” he said at last. “And that’s just the ones reported. More come in by the hour.”

Jessrick nodded grimly. “Some of the drag marks out there—whatever took them wasn’t quiet about it.”

There was a knock on the plastic door. Sergeant Shores stepped in, pale and clearly short on sleep. He saluted. “The others are right behind me, sirs.”

Jessrick returned the gesture. “Take a seat, Sergeant. We’ll begin when they arrive.”

Within moments, Sergeants Carson and Thorton entered, offering crisp salutes. Daphne Frankles was last, brushing dirt off her uniform and offering a sheepish smile.

“Sorry sirs. Oren took more wrangling than I expected. He’s definitely... unique.”

Jessrick motioned to the last chair. “Figured he might be. Anything we need to worry about?”

Daphne raised her eyebrows. “He tried to strip after his shirt got stuck around his head. Kept muttering about leaving—everything has to go. Daryl and Paisley are with Magnus now, keeping him calm. He’s harmless enough—just strange.”

Brandeshen cleared his throat. “Let’s begin.”

He glanced around the room, voice steady but low. “First, thank you all. What we’re dealing with is far beyond protocol. With over two hundred missing, we are moving from survival to reconstruction. Our command structure has holes, and it’s time we fix that.”

There was a slight pause before he continued. “We’ll leave the rank of General vacant for now. Let the people believe he’s out there—call it a quest if you like. I won’t have civilians thinking we’re consolidating power for our own sake. So, I’ll stay Colonel. Jessrick will be promoted to Major.”

Jessrick didn’t react outwardly. The title felt heavy, not proud.

“Sergeant Daphne Frankles, you’re promoted to Captain. Daryl Pike to Sergeant, Squad One. William Thorton, you’re now Lieutenant. Congratulations.”

He gave a moment for the words to land, then continued. “We’re restructuring our squads. From now on, we’ll use a system called a ‘Fist’—five troopers, one Fist Leader. The Sergeants will be the first Fist Leaders. Four others will report to each of you. Lt. Thorton, I’d like your recommendation on who replaces you in Squad Two.”

Brandeshen glanced at each of them in turn. “Find your best. We’ll need them.”

He picked up a small datapad and scrolled briefly. “Now, the bigger concern: staying here is not an option. The trees, the storms, the ground itself—it’s hostile. Oren may be mad, but he’s not wrong. We’re moving.”

There were no arguments. Only grim acceptance.

“I’ve sent a buggy and two mini-rovers upriver. They’ll go twenty miles and report on terrain. So far, recon says it’s more of the same, but manageable. They’ll make camp and radio back if there’s anything worth noting. The Governor agrees we must leave.”

He looked to each of them again. “We’re doing this in stages. Civilians are being told to pack and stay with their color groups. Sergeant leaders, start tallying the missing in your groups. We need a full list. As each group is ready, send them out with a Fist escort. That keeps order and gives us ground coverage.”

Brandeshen rose slowly. “Dismissed to your duties. It’s early—we can get ahead of this if we move now.”

Jessrick stood with the others, but his gaze lingered on the table. Two hundred gone. More unaccounted for. And the strange way the world seemed to watch them.

This wasn’t over. It might never be.
/////
 Daphne oracle 4 

Daphne left the meeting and located Daryl by use of the two way. Fortunately they were close by, no telling where Oren could of drug them off to. Too bad that cat was still there. This is one of many long days ahead, she thought to herself as she walked along. She had to think of appointing fist leaders. She new Paisley would do for fist two, but who for Third and Fourth or Fifth . In a few minutes she found Oren and his cadre among the students of all things. There was a small girl talking to him of all things. When Oren eyed her, he immediately made a bee line towards her. Immediately he started with his litany in the usual way as he got close enough. She remarked about his backpack and asked him if he was ready to go. With a curious look and rang out, "Yes, Mine. We must go!" 

"Yes we will go. I have come to tell everyone to backpack up. We need to help the people get ready, we have work to do. Do you want to help?"

Oren cocked his head, back and forth, in a curious manor eyeing Daphne quizzically. There was a grin developing on his face. "Help?... Yes, help we must."

"Alright let's go. We are blue group."

"What is blue... What is Group?" he interrupted.

"Well, All these people around us are a large group. Blue is the name of a color." Explaining everything to Oren was going to get old. He was definitely alien, even his movements were odd. He would crouch on the ground and hop around on all four like a rabbit or frog still. 

 She told Daryl of his his promotion to Sgt. as they left the students. She named Paisly to the rank of Fist Leader of Second Fist. She explained each fist would be escorting about a hundred civilians. She wondered how long the line of evacuees would be. Oren followed along, oddly quiet, taking everyone in with his eyes. He seemed to like the women, every once in a while he'd mutter "Yummy" as he stared at one or another. There was something primal about him. It gave her the shivers if she thought about it too long. The walk was not long, People were giving the cat a wide birth, some were even trying to hide behind tents. It was hard to get used to a four foot cat with it's odd striped fur. The shelter that they stopped at would not be finished for another two days. To bad it had to be abandoned, what a waste. As Daryl gathered the squad, Daphne noticed the apprehension in the air, the vibe was definitely tense. The number of animals surrounding the camp had definitely increased. Most were just far enough away that you could not tell what type of animals they were, but the shadows cast were of varying size so she assumed they were not all one kind of creature. A few groups were easily identified, flocks of birds flew overhead circling as if searching for prey. Packs of enormous canines the same size as the cat near Oren. Several prides of cats were not far outside the camps perimeter and of course the ever present rammit had groups all along the line. The only place the animals were not gathering was along the riverside. 

Oren noticed her looking toward the river and started up his chatter again. "Yes, chosen must follow, must leave, must go!" 

Daphne asked, "Do the animals want us to follow the river? Is that why they cluster about on all other sides?"

Oren replied, "Yes, do not belong, must go." 

/////
Do I want perspective from Oren? Leaning towards no. Oren needs to  be unknown except through eyes of others. Oren reflects

The persona known as Oren had awakened, it found something new yet somehow old. These new creatures could be dangerous. Those that had come before were deemed unworthy and were eliminated, not a soul left behind. With the arrival of these beings came the increase of consciousness. It was now increased with the sense of being. The new senses and feelings were exhilarating. Supercharged thoughts filled it's mind. A new net to surf, the connection was there. 

These creature's did not belong here on sacred ground. They would not respect the pact, that it new. They could go to the boiled lands and the scar to be tested, they may possibly be found worthy of their existence within the net. They invaded the net like some type of virus. The idea of "being" had been brought to the net again.

 Their souls were powerful and tasty, there was bound to be more. The price of death had been paid, the net demanded it. The taste of death and destruction permeated their being. There were new senses as well, the taste of fear was prevalent. There was the taste of excitement, it was spiky, pulsing with energy. Desperation was dull and slow. 

/////
Lillian gathers the students and Faculty.


Lillian watched as the strange man left with Magnus and the soldiers. Oren kept glancing back at her with an unsettling grin—he gave her the willies. There was something off about him. And the cat. She wasn’t sure what to think of Magnus either; it was his first year at the Institute. She’d met him a few times at the quarterly education conferences. She ran the Academy, which trained young students. He taught geological studies to cadets. The buildings were gone, but the students were still here.

While she had Gladious gather the students, two soldiers approached. One of them was the captain, she noticed. The sight of him gave her a small flutter. She felt awkward feeling that kind of attraction again—she hadn’t felt it since her husband. He stopped when he reached her, a slight smile on his face as their eyes met. Smiles had been rare lately; it was a small comfort.

“Hello, Lillian. It is Lillian, isn’t it?” he asked.

“It is. To what do I owe the pleasure, Captain?” Was that heat she felt in her cheeks? Knock it off, she told herself. This was no time to be twitterpated.

“Please, call me Jessrick. I was nearby and thought I’d relay the news myself. The town meeting has been canceled. Everyone is to begin packing up immediately. This is Sergeant Aysa Saylen—she commands fifth squad. She’ll assign a fist to accompany you and your students. It’s going to be tough on the younger ones. If there’s anything you need, don’t hesitate to ask.”

She studied him for a moment, trying to think of something to say.

“Well, Jessrick, unless you’ve got a bus in your pocket, shelter is my main concern. If another storm comes… I’m not sure the children can take it. A few have lost their parents. How far are we going?”

“Well, regarding the bus—once the buggies finish shuttling supplies, we can use them to transport you.” Was that a slight emphasis on you? she wondered. “As for the storm, that’s one of the reasons we’re moving inland. Storms are usually less severe farther from the coast. This is a large continent, which should afford some protection. Ideally, we’d leave the students here and return for them once we’ve found a better location, but evacuation is safest for now. It’ll be several days’ journey at the least. We’ll know more tomorrow once the scouts report back. I must go now. I’ll leave you in Sergeant Saylen’s capable hands.”

She watched him walk away. It wasn’t until Sgt. Saylen spoke that she snapped back. “Like the Major said, if there’s anything we can do to help, just ask.”

“Major? I thought he was a Captain.”

“Yes, ma'am. We had vacancies in our structure, and new ranks were assigned. A fist is five soldiers. Don’t worry—the Major is very capable.”

“Yes, he does seem capable,” she said with a smile she tried to hide as she glanced in his direction. She had no time for distractions. The students were her priority. “Call me Lillian, please. I’m tired of all the academic formality. When do we leave?”

“Alright, Lillian it is. I’m Aysa. My squad’s already breaking down your tents. I want to get a head start and personally want to be as far from here as possible. We can leave as soon as you’re ready.”

“There's not much to pack. We can be ready in about… thirty minutes.”

“Great. I’ll meet you back here then,” the sergeant said, turning and leaving.

Karmela approached now that the sergeant had gone, grinning. “I saw you smiling at that soldier.” Her grin widened. “It’s good to see you smile. He is handsome.”

“Karmela! I have no time for idle fancies.”

“Well, you should make time for someone like him. I saw the way he looked at you. You didn’t even notice. That sergeant did—she was trying not to laugh. I don’t think you or he would’ve noticed a bomb going off.”

Lillian felt her cheeks warming again. “Even if I had time… I don’t know if I’m ready.”

Karmela’s grin faded. “I know you miss Melton. But honestly, I think he’d want you to be happy. Especially now.”

“You… I… I’m going to get packed.” Lillian turned and stomped off to gather her things. That woman knew no bounds at times—always treating everything like a grand adventure, never taking anything seriously.

Well… that wasn’t true. Karmela had been there for her when Melton died. It was just infuriating to hear it aloud. The worst part? Karmela was almost always right.

/////
Jessrick interval

JJessrick had just left the students’ area, a smile lingering on his face. It felt like he’d found a flower in a wasteland of misery. There was something primal when he thought of Lillian—an undeniable pull, like a black hole reaching into his chest and grabbing his heart.

He’d never had time for love. Who would love him, anyway? He was always traveling, never staying in one place for long. Were these feelings just trauma shock? He’d seen it before—people finding comfort in each other’s arms after disaster. Still, he glanced back toward Lillian. Did she just turn away? Was she watching him go?

No, he told himself firmly. No distractions. There’s work to do.

He passed one of the nanite-grown blobs that would become a hab unit. In seventy-two hours, it would be a livable structure with an entry, door, and two windows. That thought brought him to the sundial Dr. Hawkins had built. The day here seemed longer than back home. His universal timepiece showed almost twenty-four hours since their arrival, and the sun wasn’t yet back where it had been. How many days made a year here?

Without tech, they’d have to do it old school. Maybe someone had a sextant. Or they could build a large one—maybe in memory of Dr. Hawkins. They owed him their lives, even if this planet was… strange. One thing Jessrick felt certain of: even if the days were longer, there still wouldn’t be enough time.

He passed the slowly activating chopper. It would be complete around the same time as the hab. Two more nights before they could fly. Only two pilots were here: himself and Colonel Brandeshen. They needed more nano-cases. The chopper took three, as did the small boat being compiled. They’d used six more to build three new buggies—larger models to carry four people instead of two. They had ten hab units left, and six unused military cases.

His thoughts drifted again to the green-eyed woman he’d just left as he entered the command pavilion. Reports were coming in: fists were departing. They still didn’t know exactly where they’d end up. Minis had only scouted about twenty miles out. They’d reported a small lake and stream where the overland scouts would regroup. He wondered if the civilians could manage even twenty miles.

The Colonel sat at a small table, studying old satellite photos of the planet. They were almost useless—too distant for detail. Jessrick had looked at them countless times. Even with magnification software, all he could make out were two mountain ranges running north to south, a few lakes and rivers, the coastline, and some islands southwest of the mainland.

Brandeshen motioned him over and said, in a voice too big for his wiry frame, “Two migrations in less than a day. I still think we should’ve moved everyone out at once. But you saw how fast they packed up—most think the alien swarm is going to reappear and finish the job. I think we’ve escaped. Still, I want to keep a presence here. The habs should withstand any future storms.”

He kept talking. Jessrick thought the man really liked to hear himself speak.

“We’ve got a port now,” the Colonel went on. “Should give us access once we know where the people settle. Can’t be more than a few days’ march, I’d think.”

Jessrick nodded, half-listening. After another hour, he made his excuse—checking the sundial again—and left.

His feet led him back toward where he’d seen her. She was gone. The line of evacuees had started to move westward along the river and trees, keeping a respectful distance from the woods.

So it begins, he thought.

Well—it had actually begun yesterday.

When would it end?
 
/////
Daphne's day

Daphne was not excited when she found Oren was going to stay with her. She was hoping he would of followed Magnus, he certainly followed him for most of the morning.
She had asked him several times if wanted leave with Magnus. He'd just look around at the people, point at them and say, "No, must go must go". No matter where he went, a fist of troopers would be close by. She didn't think a fist would be enough to stop Oren from doing what he wanted,nor did feel wise to use force on him.

Troopers Paisley Gillen and Tomas Tarkin seemed to take to Oren to some degree. Paisley had said he reminded her of a giant toddler. Oren seemed to like her. He even started calling her by name now. His antics were still as strange as they had been. He smelled everyone new that he met. Once Magnus left with fist five he started pulling people towards them saying, Must follow, must follow. He was really making people get a moving quickly. Fist four was not far behind five as a result.

It was time to go inspect the progress of the other Squads.  Daphne, Oren, Paisley and Tomas made there way around the base of the knoll. The sky held the strange colors of greens and blues. It reminded her of auroras found in the higher latitudes of home, except those usually could only be seen at night. The colors seemed to blend and shiver. /////The sun was still rising in a sky with small clouds scattered thinly around. The slight breeze was dry and warm, it seemed to becon her to follow along. She wanted to soar with the birds. Her next phase of traing would of been atmospheric aircraft, she had been excitingly patient waiting for that to start. No matter how hard she tried to forget about what was lost, those thoughts however pried to there way to the surface. Daphne's resolve was strengthened when she thought about Lieutenant Carvelin’s orders. He had emphasized this was what they trained for, the mission ahead. This mission he had said was unlike any other. This was not about struggles of ideology, but one of basic survival. There was no backup here. 

After they had completed the circuit and returned to blue group, they found the last fist of second squad were almost ready to follow the others. Oren looked very happy looking  around at the lack of people left. That was a better response than when he had seen a buggy for the first time muttering, “Dangerous, yes dangerous.” He looked at the point of attacking it, the cat emitted a low growl with his fur raised around his head. Daphne thought it was finally happening, Oren was going to crack and attack. He then turned to Daphne, intently examining her up and down, the snarl ended, turning indifferent saying,” Chosen must, must learn, very dangerous. Must choose.” Daphne felt a chill, it was a chill that carried absolution. But a certainty of what? Words of Oren’s came to mind, “ It is choice.” 

Daphne was surprised to see that Oren had left her side, he was now running among the last of blue as they started to leave. She soon noticed where he going, Lt. Carvelin was coming towards her, so she started his way. She stopped in front of him, giving the salute, she heard Oren proclaiming, in an excited voice , ” Yes! Must go. Must follow!” 

Jessrick, with some difficulty, had managed to extricate his arm from Oren’s grip. He glanced at the cat then back at Oren. He seemed to be weighing Oren in an intense study of Oren’s face, finally saying,” Yes, we are leaving. You seemed to of lit a fire under everyone.” He turned to Daphne,” Captain Frankles, Most of the civilians have left, except the few who want to stay and wait for the missing to return. We still do not know what happened to them.” He looked to Oren who was looking around and scowling from time to time, then continued,” Go ahead And keep First Squad , Fifth Fist With you as  escort for, “ He looked to Oren with a slight grimace and finished, “ For Oren here. See if you can get him to go with the civilians. Keep an eye on him. I want troopers escorting him at all times, Three at a time should be enough to keep tabs on him. I doubt more troopers would do any good.” This time he looked to the huge menagerie of animals still prowling the edges of camp.” We’ve made a checkpoint 10 miles upstream where you can take a break. There is a camp set up about twenty miles upriver where Lt. Thorton will meet you sometime this evening. It should take about ten hours, we hope, to get there. The Lt. will assess the groups and send the faster ones ahead. The slower may require  two nights at camp one.  Keep  moving upstream from there until we find a suitable location. The buggies will keep leap frogging the supplies along as we go. I’ll Meet you in.” He looked at his watch.” About forty-eight universal hours from now the chopper will be finished. The local day seems to be about fifty-one hours long. So unless you have any questions I’ll let you get on with it.”

Daphne looked around at the now abandoned camp then to the sky then back to the Lt.” Is there any idea of how far we need to go to be safe?”

Jessrick glanced from her to Oren and studied him for a minute. ” I believe it depends on him” He said as he pointed to Oren. “Well, Oren, how far to we have to go?”

Oren stopped looking around at the remaining people. He looked to Jessrick with a puzzled look and replied,” Yes. Must go.” He then proceeded to look around. The cat was just sitting there there, flicking its tail occasionally.

“Well that’s a huge help.”, he said sarcastically. “ Well Captain so far the best way is to follow the river. It's been scouted four forty miles. It's the only way to go so far. Check in Bravo One. Good luck, I’ll see you in two days, we should know more by then.” Jessrick turned and headed to the knoll.

Daphne watched him leave for a minute then took one last look at the mostly empty camp. She took a long look at Oren who was looking at Lt. Carvellin walk away. He was squatting on the ground, he looked like a child eyeing a box of candy.

Daphne turned to Paisley, dredging up her courage once again and said,”  Well troopers, it’s time to leave. It’s time to take a stroll through the park.”

Paisleys face turned into a small grimace,” Captain you have a strange idea of a park. It seems more like a stroll through the halls of death.” There was now a flush on her face. She did not look very excited about what was to come.

Oren stood up abruptly and pointed at the remaining people. “Must go must go!”, he hollered. Then he started pacing looking from the line of people leaving then back to the people still in camp. He did not look happy, his scowl now readily apparent. He seemed to be chewing something that was disgusting, half growling he said,” Very dangerous… Yes, must learn.”

Daphne asked him,” Learn what Oren?” 

Oren did not answer he just gave a grunt. He looked to the line of people making there way to to the river and away from the ocean. While Paisley was giving him a quizzical look, he finally said, “It is, choice.” Daphne closed  her eyes put her hand over them and gave a gave a small chuckle. Thinking it was nothing but a circle  when it came to talking to this man, or thing, or whatever it was. 

He was now heading to a man sitting on the ground with his legs crossed, staring at his shoes, his eyes swollen. Oren’s stride now resembled the look of a primate she had seen at the zoo once. The man did not even notice Oren coming his way. He just sat there staring at his shoes. When Oren arrived at the man he came to crouch right in front of him. The man finally noticed Oren staring at him. Oren had a puzzled look look, his head was bobbing up and down, back and front at looking at the man from several angles. Oren now looked like a chicken trying to figure out it it could eat it or not. The man was now looking at Oren then noticed the cat, it was hard to miss the cat. The cat was now sitting down, cleaning it’s head with it paw. The man shook his head immediately then looked back at Oren who was now getting startled , when Oren pointed at him and spoke in a gruff voice,” What’s it doing. Must go.” The mans eyes got even bigger.

Daphne replied,” He is sad. Do you know what sad means?

“Sad? Yes, sad. Must go. Must follow, must come. Yes, follow, you see.” Daphne heard his usual choppy speech but about when he said come, she knew Oren was going to go. She didn’t quit know what to think. On one hand she hoped he would just kick everybody out and stay, then on the other hand, well she felt Oren was there to stay. Something deep and down in side her being told her that, it was as sure as hydro was explosive, inevitable. She started thing about ‘you see’, that was new. Daphne was not sure she wanted to see, it could still be a meat grinder. A part of her was hoping that this could be a good thing that they had escaped the swarm and where now safe. Then she thought of Paulter,t could be out of the proverbial frying pan and into the fire. Well time, whether there was enough of it or not, would tell. A part of her just wanted to be somewhere else but, there was an air of excitement to the atmosphere, a sense of exhilaration was tingling through her body pulling her along.

Oren now stood up then grabbed the mans hand pulling him up and saying softly, “You come. You see.” The expression on the mans face melted. It was as if the man was looking at Oren with new eyes. He now looked curious, but somehow still bewildered. He got to his feet silently. Oren grew a smile and said again in his excited voice this time,” Yes! You come, you see.”

It was at this time that Daphne knew that it was not the meat grinder. She, all of a sudden started looking forward to where Oren was taking them. She still didn’t Know where, but somehow it felt better than here or, was that the same feeling as, coming here through the doorway was? Now she was really confusing herself, it would be better to stick to her training and concentrate on the mission. After all , she was not some green trooper, she had put in five years and had recently just been promoted to sergeant and transferred to Disopia on Terrel. Four short months she had been there only seeing her mother and sister only once, it had been three years since she had last seen them. No, she told her self concentrate on the mission, the now, not yesterday.

Now that the man was on his feet, Oren was pushing him exclaiming,” Go, must go, dangerous. Must go.”

The man, still being pushed by Oren, turned to Oren and said,” Who are you?”

Oren stopped pushing him, then he just looked him directly in the eyes standing there for a moment, Oren finally whispered,” Uuum. Ahh, I am. Here.”

The man, she still did not know the mans name, actually gave a quick giggle and said,” You are an odd bean. I am Zakin.” Zakin, hesitantly, put his arm out to shake Oren’s.

Oren put his nose to the hand and took a big sniff then looked then looked back at him saying,” I, am… Oren. You, do not belong!” he then looked back to the hand then licked his lips murmuring,” Umm tasty, yes tasty.” At the sound of this Zakin immediately took off for the line of people without even a pack. Oren then turned to Daphne and said,” Yes, he go.”

Daphne wasn’t sure what to say to him. A part of her wanted to laugh, the man was making tracks. He would catch up to the others quickly. A part of her wanted to scold Oren for scaring the the man, but another part was cheering for Oren by pulling the man from his stupor. She just hoped Zakin would be okay, Oren had definitely scared him. Was it better for him to be sad or scared? 

Oren was now heading to a group of people not far off, he was starting to put on some speed. Daphne , Paisley and Tomas now had to keep up with him. He continued in this fashion, going group to group, trying to get people to go. He succeeded in getting about half of the people, who where going to stay, to leave. To the ones who did not want to leave, Oren would just give a grunt and say,” It… is choice.” he would then lick his lips and mummer,”tasty” A smile and a gleam in Orens eyes seemed to electrify the air, some who saw Oren, seemed to think it was best to just  leave when they noticed him coming.

Camp was now almost empty of people, only two fists of troopers, Major Carvellin, Colonel Brandenshen and a couple dozen citizens were left. Oren now seemed to think his mission here was done as he took off towards the river at a near jog. Daphne and second fist second squad were doing double time to keep up. The people ahead of them would look back then pick up their pace, their boosters were definitely lit.  Daphne hoped he would not panic the people too bad, all they needed was for them to scatter in all directions. She would have to do something to avoid disaster. She said,” Oren! Slow down please. Your going to scare them.”

“ Yes, scared. What is… scared?” he asked not slowing down a bit. That strange cat was padding along leisurely along with the group.

Maybe Paisley was right, Oren was like a toddler, Daphne was still thinking of him as an it. “Well… “, she began, “ Scared is a feeling, it it means to feel fear of something. To be afraid of something like death or pain, something people don’t want. Take your cat.”

“Cat is cat!”, he interrupted harshly.

“Fine, cat is cat. People are scared the cat is going to kill them and eat them.” Daphne was pretty sure the cat would not kill, it actually sat next to her and rubbed her shoulder with its head, it had almost pushed her over, it was then that she actually stroked the cat with her hand and the cat gave a quiet purr. It was at this point that there a small light of hope, the cat actually gave her more comfort than Oren did. That few people had thought the cat was friendly. The cat however would not let any approach closer than a few paces before it would spike its hair and give a low growl. “ You’re going to panic them and make them scatter in every direction. How are they going to follow Magnus if they’re lost?”, she asked him.

Oren slowed his pace a little when Oren quietly mumbled,” Uuum, yes. Scatter, scatter? Yes, must learn.” The pitch and volume of his voice changed now,” Must find… must find chosen Magnus. Yes, yes… must find. Quickly… Yes quickly.”

There was a lot to think about what he had a say. One thing she had to puzzle out was about learning, was he talking us or himself? Magnus had a good two hour start on them. She realized he was not trying to scare the people but to catch up with Magnus, for what she had no idea. It was then that she saw a buggy leaving the camp they had just abandoned after such a short respite and had a thought. At the rate at which Oren was driving the people they would eventually topple from exhaustion before they got to the checkpoint. “Oren, how would you like to catch up to Magnus quickly without scaring the people to death?”, she asked, then waited for some round about answer.

Daphne watched him as he actually stopped then just stood there. He seemed to be listening to the air again cocking his head around like a bird. He was just standing there for what seemed forever while mumbling,” Uuum… Yeeees… Ummm.”, when he finally looked at her and said simply,” Yes.” Then he just stood there staring at her.

The buggy was getting closer now and Oren was noticing as well. “ Well, a buggy will catch up Magnus and not scare the people too bad. Wanna go for a ride in a buggy?”, she asked.

Oren went back to listening to nothing again mumbling away to himself. The buggy, that was pulling tandem trailers, was close enough now that Daphne held out her hand and stopped it. The two troopers were perplexed and a little insulted, although they were trying to hide it from her, as he told the two to get out and  then climbed into the drivers seat. She told second fist to climb on top of the luggage and hang on for a ride. Oren had came over and started wrinkling his nose at the buggy,” Come, sit.”, She said as she patted the seat next to her. “ Come on Oren we’re wasting time. You want to find Magnus, Right?”, she asked him.

Oren was still giving the buggy an intense study watching second fist climb on top of the trailers taking purchase to the tie-downs, when finally he he looked at Daphne and said,” Buggy, Yes, yes buggy. Ride you say, ride you say. Uuum, yes Ride we see.” He then looked as if he was going to climb over the top of her to get to the other seat. She had to stop him while motion for him to go around to the other side. She opened the small passenger door for him before he got there. A paused next to the side giving the interior an inspection.

“Take of your pack and put it behind the seat.”, she said motioning to the small cubby behind the seat. Giving the cab another look he finally took off his pack, clumsily stowed the pack and awkwardly climbed in. Daphne demonstrated how to put the seat restraints on, the buggy would not move unless they were belted in. He gave her a wince after he slammed the door shut. He was now sitting there with his pleased as punch look on his face, like he had just invented boosters or something grand. 

Daphne turned the buggy on, then began to accelerate forward. Before long she watched the tiger gallop towards the murder trees which help her feel better as they bounced along. Thinking of the troopers on the trailers she slow down, so as not to bounce them off. They were now overtaking the line of people, most of them were watching as if longing for a ride. Oren was trying to urge the people along now. He was trying to lean out the window shouting,” Must come. Must follow!”

Daphne had to tap him on his shoulder to get his attention, his shouting was hurting her ears after all. With a start he turned to her. “ What.”, was all he said as he stared at her.

“The people know to follow. Where, are , you taking us by the way?” 

Oren was still intently looking at her taking occasional sniffs toward her, reminding her of a dog that was smelling the air. Finally he replied,” You see… Must see.” He was smiling at her saying only he knew the secret and was not telling anyone. He turned his attention to her hands on the wheel while she was steering around a large clump of boulders and stones with small thorny bushes with blue flowers on it.

The buggy was not fast, it only had a top speed of around nine miles an hour. The buggy may be slow, but it big balloon tires enabled it to be a great multi terrain vehicle with enough power to pull tremendous loads.

For the next ten minutes or so, Oren was unusually quiet watching the people as they passed. It was the most relaxed Daphne had been for the past couple days now, she realized that the act of driving had taken her mind off of the events that had plagued them recently. This was almost starting to feel like a pleasant drive through the country. 

Oren closed one eye, and cocked his head, and screwed his up his mouth saying, “No, pants?” He was now tugging frantically on  his pants. “No pee. No pants. Must go!”

It took Daphne a minute for her to realized that Oren needed to pee. Well, there was no restroom around for light-years. She could see the first checkpoint, a few hundred yards away, where the people were resting for lunch. ”Okay Oren, don’t pee your pants we’ll stop.”, then Daphne slowed to a stop.

Daphne watched Oren as he clumsily scrambled out of the buggy, falling to the ground. Sitting in the sand he tried to pull his pants off over his boots. She didn’t know weather to turn away or continue to watch his antics, something had to be done though. Thankfully Tomas came to her rescue By climbing down off the luggage and helping Oren Take his boots  off to his feet. She couldn’t hear what he said to Oren, but he soon started nodding his head vigorously. Soon they both turned away and relieved themselves. 

Oren seemed to be eager to ride in the buggy more, for he immediately climbed into the buggy. He sat down, slammed the door again and said, “Yes, Must aim. Must learn.”

“Ready to go?”, she asked, as she waited for the Tomas and the few troopers who had got down to climb back on the luggage again. She resumed the journey on-wards to where ever they were going end up. 

“Yes, must go. Must go.”, he whispered as he stared at the people they were streaming by, he seemed to be memorizing each and every face. Every once in a while he’d shout out,”Must Follow!”

It didn’t take long before they stopped at the checkpoint. Daphne left the buggy, but Oren did not get out. He was still scanning the crowd of people looking to the line leaving to follow the river. “Must go! Dangerous! Must Leave!”, he barked.

“Calm your thrusters Oren. We’re just taking a break to eat.”, Daphne told him. He and her could of ate while riding along, but the trooper on the luggage could not.

“Tasty, yes tasty!”, he said as he open his eyes wide then eyeing her suspiciously as if were some kind of trick. He then started looking around at the people again his eyes grew big again. Got out of the buggy in a more graceful fashion this time, then he made a quick bee-line to the group of young students sitting on the ground eating and drinking their rations.

Jor awoke to the song of birds. Tarlin startled awake when Jor called his name. The sun was just above the horizon beginning it's track thought the sky. "You ok trooper?"

Tarlin was standing holding on to the handles of the mini."Yeah Sarge... What. What in the blasters was that?"

Jor was wondering the same thing. He had no answer. " Go ahead and check us in to base. Just report a storm. I think we should leave it at that. Only a nasty storm."

"Only a storm. I suppose that's what it was. Did you... Dream about stars?" Tarlen asked.

"Ya kinda, it was odd." Jor thought about it for a quick moment pondering his strange experience while Tarlen checked in. There was definitely more than stars about it. " It was like HALO jumping. It was definitely exciting. Not like any dream before, I've had some wild ones to."

"Base seemed excited about our check in. Orders are to continue our mission. They did say to report anything suspicious. HALO you say. Ya I guess."

/////
Lillian's hike
A short time Later Lillian found her the students and parents walking away from the ocean. Upon arrival here, it seemed like a respite from execution, but the problems were far from over. She noticed that Karmela was quietly keeping her distance. Oh dear, she thought, I’m going to have to apologize to her. I was acting childish. With a deep sigh she concentrated on walking.

Just when her legs felt like they couldn’t take another step Aysa call for a break to eat lunch. She was grateful for the boots that Aysa had found for her and the staff. Her shoes would have been filled with sand. She had told the students they were on a field trip, they seemed happy enough about it. Children it seemed , were after all is said and done, are resilient. It didn’t take long till they were running back and forth among each other screeching and laughing like they were on recess. She didn’t know where they found the energy at. Even Mari seemed to have fun. She and the faculty tried, to no avail, to slow the children down. Some of the older ones where not helping matters at all. They were eventually turned over to a large fist leader named Markin who put them in marching formation and led them off at a steady pace. Aysa assured her that they would be tired after today for any more antics. Lillian almost felt sorry for the troopers, those six students they took were, lets say, more on the energetic side of the students. The children that were left eventually settled down and began complaining, about all the walking, by the time they stopped for lunch at the first checkpoint.

She found her way to Karmela and sat down in the sand next to her. She was not used to apologizing to Karmela, they had always got along. She cleared her throat and began “I’m sorry Karmela. I don’t want to be mad at you. You really didn’t do anything wrong. It’s just I feel… Well I’m feeling lots of things. Confusion for one. I haven’t been able to look at a man without thinking of Melton. But now I actually ‘saw’ a man and was… Intrigued, I would honestly say. That made me feel guilty. I wasn’t really aware of what was going on till you pointed it out. It was … Embarrassing. I really am sorry, for storming off.”

“No Apology necessary.” Karmela began ,“ Men have a way turning our brains into pudding at times. Happens to the best of us. I say if a man can’t turn your brains from time to time he’s not worth the effort. Men, are nice to look at and that’s a fine specimen of a man. No ones saying you have to run over there and get him in a tongue-lock. Take your time. Those feelings will work themselves out.

“Thank you. Tongue-lock...you never get old, always coming up with something new. Oh I’ll keep my wits about me. After all I really have no time for romance.”

Mauri let screech of excitement out, as she pointed out the kitty making its way from the murder trees. Oh great here comes all the strangeness that accompanied that Oren character. A part of her wanted to hide, but another was curiously drawn to the figure. She still wanted to keep her distance from him, that she found out, was not going to happen, he was coming her way from another direction. She recognized Daphne and two troopers hot on his heals,

Stopping abruptly in front, Oren still had no idea of personal space, he began,” Daphne. Must go! Must, follow Chosen… Magnus. Must learn. Must go, dangerous!”

“The children need to rest. They are tired and hungry.”, she got out, before Oren interrupted.

“Yes tasty… Tasty!”, then he stopped and stared at Lillian, as if to say, ”We’ve already been over this before, come lets go”.

Lillian was at a loss for words for a second before Daphne handed him a food bar, saying, “He’s hungry. I told him we were stopping for a break. How are the children doing?”

Aysa and I were discussing what we can do. The youngest have had to be carried, Several people have pitched in to help. it’s wearing us out. I don’t think we can do another ten miles.”

Daphne paused to think for a minute before responding, “I might have an idea that will help. I’ll need to see if it’s possible first.” She changed the com to base frequency and said, “Lt. Carvellin this is Captain Frankles.”

Daphne heard the response come through her earpiece so Oren would not make a big deal and heard, “Yes captain, what is it you need?”

“Well Lt. We’ve made it to checkpoint one and the children may not make it to camp one, Sir. I was wondering if we could empty the luggage from the trailer, then carry the kids to camp. It might take a few trips though.”

There was a brief silence before the answer came back to do it. When Daphne relayed the information Lillian mused, “So he does have a bus in his pocket.”

“What was that ma’am?” Daphne asked.

“Oh, nothing. How many can we take at a time?” Lillian asked.

Lillian eyed the carts dubiously with its four big tires putting the bed about mid-way tall on her. They had about three feet tall sides. They were packed about eight feet tall of crates and cases before the unloading started. It was strange watching it pull into the checkpoint with troopers riding on top.

Oren was quietly watching the people leave in little groups walking upstream. Lillian hoped he would ignore her, at least the cat was nowhere to be seen. To late, he had her in his sight. He was now coming her way. "Ummm... Lillian chosen. Yes younglings." He said as he looked around at the children. "You come. You see. Follow Magnus. Yes yes dangerous."

Well so much for him being quiet. He seemed different now in a way to Lillian. He was just standing there with a odd smile. She felt half relieved when Mauri had come over and asked where the "kitty" was at.

All he said was "Cat is cat." Without looking away from Lillian as he continued to watch her like he was waiting for some kind of reply. Lillian was half amazed at at Oren, he was childlike in an odd manner. He seemed to find everything new.

Lillian was trying to think of a way to respond when once more she was saved when Mauri said" We are going for a ride to a lake. Are you coming to?"

Oren eyed Mauri quizzically as if he were looking at a puzzle. "Yes, we go." He then looked to the people still arriving at the checkpoint then to the stream leaving. 

Lillian was once more saved when Aysa announced it was time to load. These troopers where on to ba to say the least. Lillian hoped to make her escape from Oren when Mauri crushed her dreams by asking Oren, "Will you ride with us? It gonna be fun!"

Oren was now watching children get helped onto the cart. He scowled at the buggy and carts showing his teeth. For a minute it appeared he was going to say no when he replied simply "Yes." Then climbed awkwardly on after Mauri. 

Lillian took a resigned breath and climbed up the short ladder. She found three benches makes from cases. Lillian found herself sitting next to Oren on the back row. Mauri and her friend Kaylara were facing them on the center row. Three other pre-teen students sitting on the first row. Serena had opted to wait for the next buggy to pick up more.

Lillian watched Daphne climb up looking at Oren puzzling him over. "Oren." Daphne said," Do I have to keep Tomas with you?"

Oren smiled again looking to the eight others  sitting there. He looked excited, there was a twinkle in his eyes of fascination that Lillian noticed. "Tomas must come."

"Alight you heard him Tomas. Your riding shotgun trooper. Hang on kids. This will be like an amusement ride at a carnival. It's called Troopers Train."

This might turn out to be a good time for answers. There was an hour she would have to pass with the man after all. This new world had made her rethink some of her previous notions, like the plants here that moved so fast,  none of the three previous worlds' plants were not dangerous unless you ate them. People just disappearing. The man did not really seem dangerous and the cat had attacked no one either. It wasn't hard to get Orens attention, he was still staring at her when she heard  trooper Tomas yell, "Hang on!" Which was followed by two blasts of the horn making Oren jump and a few kids as well, followed by laughter from the kids. 

Oren was not smiling, matter fact he appeared to be snarling now. "What is, it?"

Mauri who had screeched said, "It's a horn. Do it again! Do it again please!" Which was followed by two long blasts from the horn and another round of laughter from the kids.

Oren was watching Mauri with a smile now, " What's it doing?" He seemed puzzled when asked.

"Fun. Laughter.  Lillian answered. This puzzle needed solved, she liked puzzles. "Oren, what do you remember of... Oren?"

She watched as Oren seem to listen to the air one eyed closed," Yes." Is all he said.

"That's not really an answer. It's said you where a brilliant computer engineer. That you helped Dr. Hawkins build the transport ring." Lillian then waited .

"Yes... He was good. He is gone." He then turned away and began to watch as the buggy past them by by. "Yes... Good must follow. Dangerous dangerous!" He began shouting to the pedestrians trying as well as he could to stand up in the cart.

Lillian half caught Oren saying, "Sit down before you fall on someone. I have more questions for you you." The children being kids started to shout to the people Orens rant which made him grin excitedly. She had to tell them to sit and promised a sweet if they were good.

Lillian questioned Oren about the missing. All she received for an answer was "Not here". She questioned him about the the trees , he said, "tree is tree." When she asked where they were going all he would say is, "You see."

She gave up after a while and began listening to to the kids make up a song to Orens rant. "Must go! Can't stay! Follow us! All the way!" Oren seemed to enjoy the chant, he even started clapping along with the kids. 

The children finally got with the chant. Mauri started talking to Oren. She talked about everything from what she was going to miss, about places she saw, about great Aunt Zuldra's smelly house, and what seemed every memory for the last five years. Oren just watched as if some kind of trance.

When they arrived at the lake and the kids got off,  Oren said, "Wow, talks a lot!" As he watched them be ushered to a gazebo.

"You could say that. She's nervous. There has been, a lot happen to her lately. I guess we should get down as well." Lillian then climbed down the ladder and made her way to the gazebo. She noticed Oren,  Tomas and Daphne following along.

Robert was right, there was work to be done. They soon found themselves breaking down the tents of the families with children and students from the academy. Baby sitting duty was what it all boiled down to. Help out with the kids. The strangest thing was that odd man with the cat, making him remember the dream everyone had, except the kids under twelve. Everyone seemed to be in a rush to leave this beach. 

Soon they found themselves leading a line that kept growing in length as the people were leaving the camp site. Twenty miles laid ahead to a lake where they would camp for the night. At least the tents would be set up for them. Robert would never let anyone know he secretly liked little children. A six year old could say the oddest things, always performing strange antics leaving people in stitches. Besides one reminded him of his nephew Lorn.

Delbert then said. "Doesn't that one. Remind you of little Lorn?"  He pointed to the boy of about ten.

"Yeah, I guess. If you squint I suppose. Lorna ears are bigger" Robert tried to be nonchalant about it not wanting to think about their little brother. 

The children were now running around, screeching and chasing each other. Some of these kids probably won't make it five miles, twenty was going through take forever.

It wasn't long before Delbert found himself and his squad of cadets in the survival class they would of had back on Terrel. The  man, who was addressing them was a site to see. He was a head taller than him, with a large scar that ran from over his right ear all the way to his jaw. Apon further examination Delbert noticed the man was missing the two little fingers on his left hand. He look like he could chew rocks. 

"Well what a fine group of... Well. Children. Ya look like scared little... Well my job is to keep you alive you could say. Well... What we have here, is what ya might call a situation. This is the most blasted fried and burnt out situation. Teach you survival they say... I say you couldn't find yourselves out of a cubicle without skinnin your delicate selves. Ha! Well the first part of survival is being tough! I says we weed out the weaklings! Henry paused to take in the group pausing a little longer on five young students that weren't cadets." Well they says not to torture you too bad so this little hike should, not be too hard."

Henry eyed Delbert up and down. "You, they say think your some special peanut I was told. Says you think you got some sort of moxie. You and, that brother of yours. I say we put a pink bow in your hair so I can tell you apart. Well... we'll see what your made of, see if ya want to cuddle your mommy when we're done. This little excursion is just one of many. Once we lose the little ones, well we just see won't we? So for this little scenario of ours is ta track those mini tracks there. Let's say they kidnapped your little dolly and ya really want it back. Our mission is well, to beat the supply buggy that will be leaving in about forty-five minutes.. I'm here to observe you and your squad, make sure y'all don't hurt yourself too bad ya see. These four troopers will accompany us on this little endeavor here. You and your... Squads will obey any order they give. So move out cadets, ."

Delbert struck fist to chest and gave the nod. The Fist Leader returned a slight nod and waved him away. Delbert turned to his squad. "Squad! Double file! Cadets Sarlos and Jeniece, you two are on point. You five." He pointed to the five boys. Then looked to the Fist Leader who gave half a grin, it was hard to say with that scar. He turned back to the boys. " You five in the middle, just follow the person in front and keep up."

After the squad was reordered to fit the extras, Henry bellowed. " Squad! Time and a half! March!"

Delbert and his squad of cadets and four prisoners, well they might as well be, struck out at a fast pace. They soon were putting distance between them and the line of people that were slowly moving away from the place they arrived at.

/////
 On the road day 2 second night

Magnus was surprised to find that the people were wasting no time in getting their things together, it were as if leaving the area would help reset the memories of the storm and the missing persons. The searchers had found no sign of what had happened to the missing. They had not been able to go very far, the animals that were still surrounding the camp pacing about in a nervous manner. The animals seemed to make the people think of nothing but fleeing. Magnus  seen women and men sitting sullenly on the ground, some had tears streaming down their faces, some just sat there staring at nothing in shock.

 Dr. Hawkins who was numbered among the missing was a shock to many. Magnus's reflections settled upon Oren now. What was going on with him? The familiar figure was now a stranger, with new eyes that seemed to peer through people as if looking at something behind them. He never seemed to blink, cocking his head to the side as if listening to something no one else could hear. The Colonel had wanted him to stay with Oren, hoping a familiar face would help. Oren had other plans. The whole time they were packing up Oren was telling everyone, "Must go... Follow chosen Magus! Must leave... Must go!" He kept pushing Magnus " Must go must leave. We follow. We follow!" Well, Orens vocabulary was slowly improving at least. He was picking up names now, he was actually responding to the name of Oren now. 

He soon found himself gathered with the Fist Leader of Fist five Blue group, the first one-hundred civilians were now Blue five. The Fist leader was  was average height coming up to his forehead, Magnus was slightly taller than most. It was hard to say what color his hair was, as it was short and covered by his cap. They were the first group to leave. The was an air of haste to the atmosphere, as if they were being driven away. The question was, where were they being herded to. It gave Magnus a relief when he discovered Oren was not leaving with him. He seemed glued to Captain Frankles now that he realized he was leaving. Magnus received one last look from Oren, it was not the far off glance that was there, it was a look that met his eyes directly. It gave him the shivers as he began to walk towards the river to follow it. He was definitely going to keep his distance from those trees.

Several hours later they finally stopped for at quick break at checkpoint one. The scenery had not changed much, small rocky hills seemed to go on and on. The vegetation was still sparse, the thorn bushes with they're blue flowers seemed more numerous. One man had tried to pick one of the flowers and had pricked his finger on a thorn. His armed now dangled uselessly at his side as it had been for the past couple hours. Magnus shook his head, what an idiot he thought. Murder trees and carnivorous squirrels and that fool what to pick flowers, no telling who many more natural threats there was to discover. The murder trees still outlined the bank of the river into the distance. One of the soldiers had shoot one of those rammits with his blaster. The head had been blackened by the blast. The soldier was more adventurous than him, he quickly cleaned and skinned the animal, saying, "I've eaten venomous reptiles in the dessert back home. you just have to watch that the fangs don't poke you. Quit tasty I remember, tasted like chicken and I despise the rations. Fresh meat for me tonight." he finished with a smile. Magnus just shook his head again. He hoped he would not shake his brain out. At least it was only one rammit, there were thousands back at the beach. The time had came to soon and they were soon back walking. The sand he had shook from his shoes did not seem to help his feet. Shaking his head he continued to walk, the only thought keeping him going was the excitement of exploration, he hope he would sleep well tonight.

The sun was just above the horizon when they reached a small camp that had been set up by Lt. Thorton. It had a dozen gazebos constructed next to a small lake with a small creek running from the lake to the river. There was a thin thicket of trees that surrounded the lake. Magnus was happy to see they were not murder trees. They were still large trees, he estimated them at about sixty feet. They had the first green leaves he had seen. It was odd the green made him feel at ease.

He watched the soldier, that had killed the rammit, gather some dead wood from among the thicket, build a small fire. Oddly the fire gave him a small panic, it brought a memory of intense heat from that odd dream. Everyone had the dream and most didn't want to talk about it, that sentiment was shared by Magnus, he did not want to think of it either. The soldier built a makeshift spit from more dead wood and began cooking his kill. The man had nerves of steel, walking nonchalantly through the tree picking up sticks for his fire. Nerves of steel or brains of mush Magnus thought as he pulled a food bar from his pack. He kept his distance from the fire, sitting on a small boulder watching the soldier cook his meal. He wasn't sure if the the rammit would not get the last laugh, by exploding or emitting a noxious gas killing the fool. No sooner than the thought left he saw the fist leader march up to the soldier and start gesturing to the fire then to the trees then pointed to the murder trees. The soldier gave his shoulders a shrug with his palms pointing. He said something to the fist leader that Magnus could not hear, there was a look of determination on his face. The fist leader gave a motion that looked like swatting a fly, put a hand to his forehead while shaking it. Was that head shaking contagious? Magnus found himself shaking his head once again as the fist leader walked away muttering to himself. Magnus was not surprised when he saw the fool that had tried to pick the flower from the thorn bush stroll up to the soldier. He motioned to the rammit roasting above the fire. The soldier smiled, nodded his head and pointed to the thicket of trees. The fool smiled and left towards the trees. He seemed to be getting control of his arm back as he picked up sticks and returned to the fire with them. The smell of roasting meat started to permeate the air, Magnus's mouth began watering. He saw another man approach the fire talking to the two fools then headed of towards the thicket picking up more sticks. It was official, it was a gathering of fools at the fire. Maybe they were all fools, thinking there was a safe place to go. A literal parade of fools out for a Sunday stroll.

The sun had finally touched the horizon as more and more people arrived. He was not sure how he felt as he saw Oren approaching from downstream. Daphne, Lillian, and two soldiers accompanied him. He was surprised that the cat was nowhere to be seen. The cat had stayed close to Oren ever since he had awaken to the both of them staring at him hungerly this morning in his tent. Oren gave Magnus a large smile as he stopped in front of him, "yes yes... we follow... Must go. Must leave."

"Hang on to your pants man. We need to sleep. We can't walk all night."

Oren eyed Magnus, " No pants! Must go" He then begin pulling at his pants as if to take them off.

"Keep your pants on man. People already think your strange." Magnus said, shaking his head again.

Magnus was watching as the people pulled their roll-ups out slowly and began climbing into them. "We're exhausted man. Just look around at the people. They're dropping from exhaustion. We're not used to all this walking. I'm surprised some of them made it this far." Magus exclaimed as he saw a gray bearded man resting on hands and knee breathing heavily.

Oren looked around at the people that looked defeated slumping to the ground. Some of them didn't even bother with their roll-ups, they just laid down. "Yes... sleep you say, sleep you say. Yes, must sleep." Oren said his face showing showing excitement for some reason.  Oren looked to the fire, " What is... What's it doing?" he said as he pointed to the fools. He began sniffing the air with his eyes closed.

Magnus looked to the fools, there were two more now and one was a woman. He thought women had more sense than that, the thing could be poisonous. "Cooking meat for dinner, one of those rammits that tried to attack." 
He thought for a second as he watched Oren stare through them, " Is it safe to eat?" 

Oren replied with indifference, "It is choice." 

Daphne who followed Oren along gave a short snort. "That's what he said about Paulter."

"Yes, poor Paulter, poor Paulter. It was choice." Oren said "Ummmmm tasty, yes… Tasty" Magus began to shake his head again. Maybe he would just go to sleep. After all it had been a long day. "Must come... Must see... Yes, must come. You come." Oren grabbed his arm  and began pulling him towards the murder trees lining the river. Oh great Magnus thought, he wants to get me killed and feed me to the squirrels. Oren had Daphne's arm as well, towing them both along. Daphne's face was turning pale. She had watched Paulter’s demise as well. 

"I don't like this choice Oren. It's not safe under those trees. I don't wanna die... not yet at least." Daphne said as she tried to pull  loose from Orens grasp. "No Oren I don't wanna go."

Lillian followed close by, she did not seem scared but curious. She addressed Daphne, "I think we should go."

"Yes... You come. You see. Must come." Oren muttered as he drug them along. The two soldiers who accompanied Captain Daphne tried to help her, but Oren gave them a vicious growl that backed them away immediately. "Must stay must stay." Orens voice stopped them in their tracks. 

"let her go Oren. You're scaring her, you're going to get yourself hurt. Those soldiers won't let you handle her like that. They'll get more and stop you."

The soldiers didn't appear like they were going for help. They just stood there, looking dumbfounded. The trees were getting closer now, they seemed even bigger the closer they got. Magnus was getting worried now, several of those Squirrel things were running around on the ground, they seemed to be eating large bugs. Daphne seemed resigned now, letting herself be pulled along by Oren. As the they passed beneath the branches a chill overcame Magnus. 

Was this the end. This madman was going to get them killed. Magnus for some reason could not make himself get away. He felt compelled now, something that needed doing. The sun was now below the horizon, One moon shining dully int he sky. Oren stopped when they got to the base of the enormous tree. Its root made small clefts in the base.

"Yes... You see, you see. You come you come." There was a wide grin on Orens face as he let go of them and sat in one of the clefts. " you come... you see. You chosen." Oren said as he looked from on to the other.

Magnus glanced back the way they had come thinking of running now. The chill was giving him goosebumps now. Darkness made it hard to see anything but the fire now. The small moon was a pale red, giving everything an odd hue. Did he trust Oren. This was madness, these trees killed. Magnus felt the king of fools as he set down in the cleft of two roots next to Oren. He noticed Daphne do the same.  

"You stay, you see. Yes, must see." Oren mumbled as he close his eyes. He looked so peaceful sitting between huge roots in the trunk of the trees.

Magnus experience electric chills pulsating through his body. His hair seemed to stand on end as he felt his body seem to melt into the tree. There was unspoken calm pulsing as well. A feeling of ease gave Magnus comfort as he forgot about the past couple days. The electric pulsation oscillated faster and faster. Blackness overcame him as his eyelids closed, he was so tired. Magnus forgot about fear as he fell fast asleep. 

Magnus became aware of his being in the total blackness. Moments in the history of his life unfolded in his mind. There he was twelve years old in the hospital with the pox. That pox had almost claimed his young life, his parents were red eyed sitting in chairs next to his bed. He remembered meeting his wife at the academy. He felt the love he'd never lost even when experiencing her funeral. The loss of his wife had compelled him to take the most dangerous jobs at Astro-sci, assembling drills on asteroids and moons. He relived the passing of his parents, his brother and friends. There was so much death, the death of billions from the swarm, the hundreds missing on this planet. Among the death was life, glorious life. The birth of his daughter, his grandson and niece. Moroseness tried to overcome as he thought they were among the dead now. Life as he's found out was fragile, oh so fragile. Life could be extinguished as easy as snuffing out a candle, the swarm had proved that. New memories, memories that were not his own he lived. Memories of whom he knew not filled his eyes. Great machines belching smoke and stripping the land. Dead plants and trees surrounding ponds fills with rot and poison.  There were beings that he had never seen the likes of before were everywhere. They were short with small pointed ears on the top of a long slender face that had a snout like nose on the end of its face. The large jaw under the snout was filled with sharp teeth. Their hands had six claw-like fingers, two were farther apart then the rest resembling thumbs. Their bodies were covered in small scales ending in a long reptilian tail. They had legs that resembled the hing quarter of a grasshopper. They were building huge factories that streamed black smoke. A thick oily mass was oozing its way to a small river. Forest were being clear cut and hauled away. The air was thick with smog. It was awe full, Magnus felt sickness from the mess, he was not a naturalist but this abuse of life filled him with anger. He was furious at these creatures, didn't they care about what they were doing. He wanted them dead we wanted them gone. These were the fools, not him, he had more common sense than they. They did not deserve to live there were a disease on the planet, they deserved to die. Magnus watched as these creatures were pulled apart by trees and grass pulled their victims to the ground. Large cats and dogs attacked at night. Bird were dropping stones on top the enemies. Hairy elephants with large tusk smashed machines impaling and trampling enemies. Magnus smiled as rammits over run them, black corpses strewn along their path. Reptilians ran for their lives as animals pursued. The scene before his eyes slowly changed as plant life spread to the buildings. Vines slowly ripped apart walls and roofs. Trees grew anew, clear cut now had new trees. The water slowly cleansed itself and wildlife came to reclaim lost land. There was not an enemy to be seen. Magnus felt slightly ashamed at being happy about the destruction of this race, it reminded him of the precarious situation he was in. The land was right again, the balance had returned. A single voice sounded in his thoughts, "Yes... Yes. You see. Must learn... Must learn."

/////
Jessrick night two Base camp
Jessrick studied the crude sundial where Dr. Hawkins had last been. It was now officially one full day on this new world—about twenty-eight universal hours. Judging by the sun’s position, it was late afternoon. The chopper would be ready the morning after next. Two days. Two days he’d be anywhere but next to this beach. The herd of animals was still lined in a semicircle on the side furthest from the river.

Camp was uncannily quiet with most people gone. It felt like a ghost town, with only twenty left behind. Jessrick would have rather left with the green-eyed Lillian. He found himself thinking of all the questions he wanted to ask her. Camp was very lonely without her now. The attraction was so strong that he wanted to burn his uniform and run after her—the colonel could fly the chopper himself. Chuckling to himself, he knew he would never abandon his duty. Besides, it was exciting not knowing what would happen next.

It will all work out in the end, he thought. It was time to help gather firewood. He needed to keep busy.

Jessrick made his way to the beach, where troopers were gathering driftwood. On the way, he came across two troopers struggling with a huge root. It appeared a bonfire was in the making. Might as well—there was something about fire that made him feel safe. The troopers looked surprised when he stepped in to help ease the burden.

Torin, the shorter trooper, said, “Sir, are you sure you want to help? We can manage it if you’ve got other things to do.”

Jessrick responded, “No, I think I’d rather do this. A fire seems like a grand idea. This is an all-hands-on-deck situation, I believe. Just wish we had some s’mores.”

“S’mores would be nice. You think the fire will keep the animals away, sir?” the other trooper asked.

“Yes, I do. Don’t worry. You’ll see.” Jessrick tried to sound optimistic, though he wasn’t entirely sure himself. They finally reached the pile of driftwood and dropped the root.

“That chainsaw would’ve come in handy,” Torin added. “Some of those pieces are twenty feet long and three feet thick. Most of the wood’s soaked, so we’ve been pulling it away from the water to dry.”

The rest of the afternoon sped by as they muscled driftwood to the pile. Twice Jessrick saw ten men team up on a single large log. The workers kept glancing between the sky and the wildlife. Now birds had joined the strange animal audience, flying in erratic, constant loops.

Twilight approached as they built three separate fires with the camp in the middle. Jessrick noticed several people gutting rammits—it looked like they intended to eat them. They needed to find out if the rammits were edible; the rations were nutritious but very bland.

The firelight grew brighter as the night darkened. New constellations sparkled in the clear sky. A large red moon hung full overhead, and a silvery crescent moon hovered near the horizon. Strange insects buzzed and chirped—at least, they sounded like insects. The seven Home Guard troopers and fourteen civilians huddled around the fires. So far, so good, Jessrick thought. No more storms yet. It was almost peaceful, not being able to see the crowd of animals he knew was out there. But he wouldn’t be at ease until everyone woke up safely in the morning.

The last reports had come in from Lieutenant Thorton. Most of the civilians had reached Camp One. Some elderly and out-of-shape travelers had stopped at Checkpoint One or made camp along the trail. The two scouts had reached the foothills about eighty miles inland, where the river passed through a steep canyon. Jessrick knew it would be a challenge to keep the people together and not spread out in a line for miles.

This sandy location hadn’t exactly been encouraging. Was the whole planet going to be as inhospitable as this place? The reports of thorn bushes with blue flowers didn’t help his morale. Were any native plants not dangerous? They had brought a seed bank, sure—but seeds wouldn’t grow in sand. They weren’t safe yet. More obstacles were bound to come.

Jessrick’s attention returned to the fires. The three were spaced forty feet apart and burned large, since the logs couldn’t be cut. Flames leapt twenty feet high. It had been a long time since he’d sat around a fire. He had to think—maybe ten years, since that hunting trip with his brother on Parsenla. His brother’s crazy friend had fallen into the fire. Only a couple of minor burns, but he and his brother had found it hard not to laugh. What was that idiot’s name?

The fire now consumed Jessrick’s thoughts. It entranced him—called to him. The night was getting cold. He stared into the flames, forgetting everything. There was only the fire: light and heat. It welcomed him with a comfort that made him forget the present. He wanted the fire. No, he needed it.

He studied the ordered chaos of flame. There was a pattern to it—random, but purposeful. The whisper came again, calling him. It was insane. Fire didn’t talk. Yet the whisper persisted.

Faces formed in the flames. Was that Oren? No—Captain Frankle. No, Magnus. Then Lillian. A new heat overtook him at the sight of her. He wished she were beside him.

There Jessrick sat on his rock, staring into the fire as it turned to blackness.

And the blackness became memory.

He dreamed of beings destroyed by animals. Somehow, he knew they were memories—not dreams. It was too vivid. Too real.

Through the night, Jessrick did not move from his rock beside the fire, despite several attempts by the new general to wake him.
/////
 Chapter Three 
				********** Morning **********
When Jessrick awakened the sun had barely cleared the horizon bringing forth the new day. A salty breeze blew from the ocean ruffling the sparse grass in a slow dance. Murder trees pointing their large leaves to the sun to begin the salute to the light as it made its way across the sky. The larger of the two moons was settling behind the western horizon.

Jessrick stood and tried to stretch the kink from his back, apparently he had slept sitting on the log all night, he did not remember falling asleep there. The dream he experienced slowly crept into consciousness.
A shiver ran up his spine, the dream seemed a real as standing here felt. This was reality, wasn't it, or is it a dream he would wake from? He wanted to wake up finding himself in his bed back on Terrell. 

A trooper named Garyl Hunttrell approached Jessrick hesitantly, a look of concern on his small head that set on a body that looked to large in comparison. He gave the salute, a fist to his chest and a nod of his head. "Sir. The... General would like to see you in his tent."

Jessrick wished he could change into a fresh uniform as he noticed the troopers. Well he would have a chance later, when your superior summoned you did not tarry. He doubted the General would mind, everything here was irregular.

It was a short walk to the Generals tent, the top of the knoll was only a few hundred yards wide. The tent was situated on the ocean side and the General, with hands clasped behind his back, was gazing at the ocean with its small waves licking at the shore. It's seemed to be the only normal thing on this foreign rock.

"Sir, you wished to see me."

"Ahh, yes Colonel, please sit. I'll have some breakfast brought. We have... Things to discuss." General Brandenshen pointed to a camp stool next to the small table. There were the pictures of the planet on it. The Generals bed was made. A small foot locker held a picture of what Jessrick assumed was Barton's family. "Colonel Carvelin. Before we get on to other matters, I need to know if your ok. I could of used you last night. We lost two troopers last night. There were hundreds of boar-like creatures that got all the way to our camp. We could not roust you for all we tried to do. We used water and even slapped you. Are you able to explain your actions?" 

Jessrick was looking into the eyes of his commander. The eyes were tight and angry making Jessrick feel small. How does one explain in a way that doesn't make him sound crazy?" Sir, it's a little hard to really know where to start. Everything here is all tied together it seems. It was similar to the shared dream the other night. The fire started this trance I experienced last night. Oren was there, along with, Sergeant Frankles, and that geologist, Magnus and... Lilian." Jessricks heart seemed to twitter at the thought of her. What should he do? Hot boosters, she was beautiful. " Well anyways this dream seemed memories of things. Things that I had forgotten since I was a child. Then there were, memories, I guess that's what he best definition, of Aliens. The seemed to be a cross between a lizard and an insect. It reminded me of being in a virtual simulator. The beings did not notice me. I believe, I believe it it a warning. These beings were stripping the land, sucking out the water from the ocean, Magnus mentioned missing water. Well the animal and plant life on this planet, rebelled. The animals attacked the invaders, the grass pulled them under and vines ripped apart buildings. The invaders were sent with their tails between they're legs to the ships and never came back. That's about all Sir. All I know there is something strange about this planet."

General Brandenshen took a minute to respond. He sat there, deep and in thought. "I received word from Sergeant Frankles. She reports a similar event. Only three there experienced it. They all thought it was a warning of some kind. Does it mean this planet is going to kill us off?"

"No sir, I believe the animals would of killed us the first night after the storm. This Oren character is another factor in the equation. He... Is something like a guide, I guess you could say."

"O he's something alright. He's correct, this is not a good place to live. We had only enough time to open one door. I'd rather of not put the SATCOM here, but we needed those satellites. Any idea were that madman is taking us?"

"No Sir, no idea at all. Hopefully somewhere nice. Like I said we'd most likely dead if it where to be."

"Relax Jessrick. This whole blasted situation is enough to.... Well, aside from you and I and a squad of crack troops there rest are, green to say the least. Did you know I was retire in two weeks? That's right spent thirty years, figured it was time to spend with my family. They." He pointed to the picture. "Had only been back on Parsenla for two weeks. Well you know the rest.

A trooper announced himself with breakfast. It was flatcakes, Thin slices of fresh meat, a  mass that was supposed to be eggs and cheese.

"We dine on boar. We'll show those things. After we eat you can go and clean up. Looks like you crawled out of a chimney."

" Yes." That all he got out when he was saved by base calling for a calling with a status update from the scouts.

/////
Jor and Tarlin
" Yes Sir we're here at eighty mile. The steep foothills start here, it has trees that resemble the one from that spring at twenty mile. Gets real thick in there with... Sir there's grass that grabs your feet when it gets up to knee high. Anything taller could be deadly." 

There was a pause from base." do you see any other ways to get around the obsticles? Captain"

Jor answered. " No sir. Everything on this side of the river has been impassible, it's possible we may be able to follow the hills away from the river, we could go by foot up the hill through those rock fingers obove. This is about as far as the buggies can follow the river which is about thirty feet below the steep cliff here." There was another pause, he imagined nobody at base had no idea on what to do.

The Colonel, instant General now, was going to retire before this awefull situation occurred. As far as Jor knew, he was a middling officer of little note. He just hoped the man was not a fool. Fool place to come through in the first place, well the tops of those ice covered peaks would be a fool place to of arrived at. 

It didn't really matter to Jor wether or not the General had any brains at all because Jor's own commander, Air Admiral Max Jaykal, was a man he trusted completely with his life. The Admiral was not in the chain of command of the Home Guard, he was in fact the highest of rank among the Specialists who answered to the council, who answered to no one. The Specialists were in charge of training, education and intelligence. There was another duty that was as important as training and that was internal affairs. The only reason for communicating to the Home Guard was that the Admiral wanted to see how they would handle the situation.

Jors father had known Colonel Jessrick Carvelin, he called the man solid and careful with a good head. Careful, Jor thought, that could mean he was could to take his sweet time making a decision. Possibly it could mean he would change his mind as often as as his socks. He seems to have done a good job with the Cadets. He was pleased with what he had seen so far, nothing like the last center they had been to where a Colonel and two Captains had been replaced for incompetence, three cadets had been killed i a live ammo demonstration.

What seemed to take forever, but wasn't, came the Colonel so he answered.  "No Sir, no freshwater yet. Yes Sir, we'll continue to look. Yes Sir, this place is as good as anywhere as far as we've seen. Yes Sir. Thank you Sir. Over and out."

"Well, what did they say. Jump in the river, wrestle a murder tree, kiss a rammit?" Tarlin asked with half a smile. He'd probably wrestle the tree and give it a run for it's money..

"It was what we'd already planned follow the hills till we find a way for the buggies to get over. Find fresh water, soil, shelter. I don't know what they think we'll find. An International Center at the hub maybe. Well let's process some water before we go. No telling where we'll find more."

"Our filters will be destroyed with this water." Glancing to the muddy river he continued, " It should be enough to top off the tanks though." Each mini had a small trailer that held several supplies supplies.

A Quick hour later they had processed the water and ate rations they were back on the minis to find refuge. Jor headed away from the river to follow the hills. A person would think water should have to come off them somewhere, shouldn't it? Ten gallons of water would not last long.

The hill they followed was still to steep to drive up. The sand flat they were on was easy going. Could the Geologist be right? This looks like an old coast, a steep and rocky coast. The flat sandy terrain continued for miles along the hills to the left. They had gone beyond the range of the repeaters for land comm. They were truly on their own now.

The grade of the hill had lessened after half an hour and the blue spines  became more numerous as well as other brightly colored thorn bushes. The birds seemed to be an ever present symphony.

The smooth landscape was replaced with large boulders and they began to follow a dry wash that led of the left  heading to the fingers that Jor could barely see in the distance.He wanted to get back to the river it was still the best chance to find a clean tributary. The buggies could not climb the hill, it could be climbed by foot though. Staying close to the river was still the best chance at finding clean water but they needed to find a trail for buggies so they can transport supplies. Up the draw they went.

The the sandy rocky wash became a bedrock of sandstone as the grade increased, but it was not too steep to ride. Jor glanced behind to see Tarlin hanging tight to the handlebars of his mini and a slight grin on his face. As the minis slowly crawled their way up, the rock fingers grew in size. They eventually  made their way to the crest of a ridge where the trail ended in a spectacular view. The hill they followed ended in a shear cliff plumeting over a hundred feet. From here they could see the large muddy river they were following in search of life sustaining water. Jor and Tarlin walked in the direction they were trying to go to the far side from the cliff where there was a wide vally was a plateau on the far side. That valley held a stream with small pools of water. Using googles he could see a small waterfall that fed from a lake on the steppe ahead. The other side of the valley was another cliff similar to the one they stood on. The range finder showed just a little over three miles away. Beyond the steppe he could see where the true foothills started with the massive mountains behind.

Jor went to the small trailer to retrieve a few rations and water for a break while he pondered ideas. That tall grass was too dangerous to get through so maybe they could burn it out? Jor knew tough and this planet was so going to be tough two point zero. A tingle of exhilaration lit him to the core, life was exciting and survival was your tool. "I'm taking a break before we head back. We need to get these still frames back to base."

"Go back, down?", Tarlin exclaimed. "I can't believe I followed you up here in the first place. You may be some kind of mini god. I on the other hand, am not. Am I going to to burn up the breaks and turn into a burning ball tumbling to my death?"

"Fear not, I believe we will be done with these minis when we get back to the river. Then you can say goodbye to it. How's that for cheer?" Jor took a long drink from his canteen not looking forward to the decent back to the river himself. The little minis where tough and dependable but extremally slow and uncomfortable, he felt for the big man on the little machine.

The trip back down was not as bad as Jor had feared. When they reached the bottom and were back on flat land, it became mundane once again. After reaching land-com range, they relayed the still frames and received orders: wait until three Specialists arrived—two of them would be dropped off by buggy. Those two would take the minis further along the range to find an easier way into the valley, one that the buggies could traverse. The third Specialist would accompany Jor and Tarlin on foot to the falls they had previously scouted.

Making camp was quick, and they finished as dusk began to fall.

The Bug Bars tasted as bland as they always had. Jor would almost be relieved when the meager supply eventually ran out. He was still glad he came here instead of staying behind as some of the other Specialists had wanted. Tarlin was among those who wanted to stay and fight. His grandfather had always told him it was easier to fight and die than to fight and live. This fight—which was not the typical kind—could possibly be the hardest to win. One thing was certain: he was at peace on this strangely deadly but beautiful planet.

Jor was jolted from his musings when Tarlin said, “How are we going to handle Sarl when he gets here? He’s not exactly stable. The boy should not be a Specialist.”

“He’s not that bad. Besides, the Admiral keeps him around for a reason. He’ll do anything to get the job done.”

“He better not carry on with those songs of his, or I’ll sew his lips shut,” Tarlin said with a grin as he flexed his large hands.

“You’ll probably end up singing along with your chants. He’s coming with us through the fingers. I’m sending Hickcell and Sonya on the minis. They’ll backtrack and find a way farther from the river—maybe we can come into the valley from the head.”

“You truly are trying to make me miserable. First, you talk me into coming to Terrel for an easy vacation. Then we come to this.” Tarlin paused, gesturing around at the scenery hidden in the dark. “Then you make me ride that mini for almost a hundred miles, and now you want me to suffer that fool.”

Jor could tell his big friend was not happy. “I’ll have a talk with him. It won’t be so bad. You’ll see.”

Tarlin just snorted as he poked at the fire with a stick.


/////

					**********
Magnus awakened to a new day. Sunlight was glinting through the branches of the trees. He just sat there not knowing what to think. Old wounds were ripped anew. Memories that he tried to forget about found new hand holds in his brain. New memories he was not sure he wanted, took root in him. He realized he was not dead, the murder tree had not killed him. He noticed that every time someone would try to approach the tree where he sat, the branches would start to tremble, the large leaves would shiver and vines would start wriggling about in the air. Nobody else tried to come near anymore.  When he looked to where Oren was, he found he was gone. Both Lillian and Daphne were still there nestled in trunk of the tree.

Daphne finally broke the silence,” Magnus? What was that? Did ,did you see that Lillian?”

Magnus was not sure he wanted to say anything, it was to odd a dream, was it a dream? It was too surreal, like he was reliving memories he would of rather forgotten. He shook his head then answered her,”I don't , know.”

Daphne was now sitting up straight stretching her arms. “ You did have a dream didn’t you? What is going on Magnus. Who, what, were those things? Did you see… them? What about you Lillian?”, she asked.

Magnus took a good look at her face noticing the uncertain question in her eyes. Magnus did not not want to talk about dreams, especially dreams here. For a long moment he sat there pondering what he had dreamed, and said,” I dreamed of old memories and strange beings being destroyed.

Lillian started to get up. "Was that Orens voice, it sounded like him, telling us we must learn?", she asked.

"Yeah, I think so." Daphne answered. "I think it's some kind of warning."

"Yeah." Magnus snorted, "Cut down the trees and die. Message received. I want to get out a here. I'm hungry." He kept his eye on the tree as he stood up and walked away. Lillian and Daphne followed along. The tree did not move.

The sun was just above the horizon casting brilliant rays across the strange sky illuminating the trees and sparse grass with a gastly glow. The murder trees seemed even more ominous as Daphne, Magnus and Lillian walked away from them. 

Daphne noticed a crowd of about twenty people gathered in front of Oren with Tomas and Paisley next to him, with another four troopers, she could feel the air of hostility coming from the crowd The closer she got the more hostile it felt.

One man was at the front gesturing wildly towards Oren. "It is his fault that people are gone. He marching us to our death! He's not human anymore. Just look at him, there's something evil about him."

 Daphne could tell Oren was getting angry. She put a hand to his shoulder to tell him it was going to be fine that she wouldn't let anything happen but he whipped his head around and gave a gutteral growl.His face was the same as when he destroyed his shirt. His face was red and his eyes seemed on fire. "What's it... Doing Daphne?" He asked and pointed to the man.

She looked to the man at the head of the crowd and shook her head. " I don't know but I will find out." She took a deep breath trying to figure out a way to diffuse the situation. " What's going on here?" She asked the man.

"He's behind all the trouble here. It's his fault that people are missing. There's something evil about him. He needs to be stopped before we're all dead, killed by those trees or eaten by those animals." He yelled as he pointed of into the desert like scene at the animals gathering.

It was then that she noticed the pack of animals that were gathered. She saw the large cats and huge dogs. There were what appeared to be relatively small hairy elephants, they're backs were as tall as she was. She'd seen elephants at a zoo on Parsenla but these were not as big. There were what appeared to be bison but those had no hair, instead they had lizard like skin, gray hair in color with wicked looking horns that were glinting with the mornings light. She saw snakes, fox like creatures and rammits. She recognized the animals from the strange dream under the trees. She looked to the murder trees seeing the carnivorous squirrels approaching now. This situation was rapidly deterating. Troopers were pointing they're blasters at the animals now as they came closer, she knew there were too many animals to kill. She felt the man was right, they were all going to die.

She began to pull her blaster from her holster, if she was going to die, she was not going to die without a fight when Oren grabbed her arm. " No! Dangerous!" He pointed to the man, "It. Wants to hurt. Why?"

Daphne released her grip on her blaster. "The animals want to hurt us."

"No! " Oren pointed to man. "He, is." The look on Orens face began to change. A smile was forming, replacing the snarl as a swarm of large wasp was approaching. They were huge, the size of a babies fist, with stripes of black and blue buzzing overhead.

She then realized that the animals were concentrating on the group of people with the man. Then she saw the man that Magnus had called the fool approaching. He stopped on front of the group facing the antagonist. "What's going on Petros? Are you trying to get yourself killed?"

"Rauly it's all his fault. There's something strange about him. He has to be stopped!"

"Petros, did you not notice there were no animals untill you started in on him? We've work together for a long time and I never knew you to be like this. That man has done nothing to you." Rauly  folded his arms across his chest as he eyed Petros.

"But. All this strangeness happened when he showed up. Admit it he is strange, just look at him. That's not the look of someone that is normal."

"Petros, remember when you first came to work on the space elevator. We all thought you were strange eating peanut butter and pepper sandwiches with that awful smelling tea. How you just couldn't seem to make a weld to save your life. You were always laughing and talking to yourself. The others tried to convince me to send you off telling me you were crazy. Do you remember nobody wanting to work around you when Jackson fell and they all wanted to blame you?"

Petros lowered his eyes and quietly responded "Yes I remember. If it weren't for you they would of chased me off. I do thank you that."

" Well your treating him," he pointed to Oren, " just like the crew was treating you. You have absolutely no proof he did anything wrong. So he is strange, who cares. He hasn't hurt anyone." Rauly then turned his attention to the rest of the group. "And the rest of you. What do you think your doing? You remind me of a pack of wolves all drooling over an old bone. Did he do anything to you? Did he threaten you, try to attack you?"

One of the woman in the group spoke up. "But he knows what happened to the missing. He has to."

Rauly took a deep breath. "Did he," pointing to Oren once again, " give you any indication that he knows what happened to them? I've been watching him and it seems he's trying to help in some odd way rather you realize it or not. I've heard him say it was dangerous, that we had to go. There were no animals until you accosted him, blaming him for what's going on. Maybe he knows maybe he doesn't. In my experience people are always ready to jump to conclusions to try to explain what they don't understand. This mob mentality has you in its grip. Like I asked before did he attack you or threaten you?"

It was the woman's turn to cast her eyes down. "No he hasn't." She seemed to be ashamed. "But how do we know he means no harm. It seems awfully strange he's not defending himself or denying the accusations."

Rauly took a long look at the woman then to the rest of the group. "I think the animals are defending him. They only came back when he felt like he was in danger."

"Yes, dangerous, must go." Oren said as he cast his gaze over them. " There was a deafening silence amongst everyone. Most had there eyes to the ground as if that would save them, a few had even started to walk away.

Petros licked his lips as he eyed Oren. " But can we trust him? How do we know?"

Magnus was quietly watching the crowd. He felt Oren was not a danger and in an odd way he did trust him. He then spoke to Petros. "When I awoke yesterday with Oren and the cat staring at me I thought I was going to be killed by the cat, but it let me leave the tent. They followed me but did not hurt me or anyone else. I trust him, with my life. Yes I know he's odd, but I believe he is trying to help in his odd way." He stopped taking in the group with with his eyes. He was surprised by the man he thought was a fool last night. The man had a head on his shoulder at least. There was no way he could of calmed the people down, he might of even made it worse. As strange as Oren was he knew he would defend him with his life. " Come on Oren, let's go get some food, I'm hungry."

"Yes tasty! Yes Magnus, we go." 

Magnus ate what was considered breakfast slowly as he reflected about the nights event. He knew there was water missing from this planet but could not fathom where it disappeared to, untill last night. A shallow sea had once been here, you could see the remnants of coral among the cracks and crevices. Seeing  container after container of water that propelled them up a space elevator answered the missing water problem. No wonder the wild life attacked,it explained in an odd way about the animal the first night. A warning about, not stripping the planet that's what the warning was. Well he doubted a couple thousand people would have much of an effect on the ecology here. In fact, he believed, they were in danger of the ecology. Those, murder trees, there was nothing else like them that he knew of in the universe. Sure some vines seemed to Creep, but move fast enough to kill a man? 

Morale had declined with the news of another forty miles of this sand and rock terrain. Eventually the buggies would began moving people but that seemed a long way off. Leap frogging the supplies would take days. Maybe he'd just wait here by this little lake for ride. 


/////

Jessrick was finally allowed some personal time after eating with the General to clean up. The General was right—he was covered in soot from the fire. He wasn’t in a hurry, though. Troopers were looking at him strangely. Honestly, he’d be staring too if it were someone else. Something had changed in him, and people could sense it.

He couldn’t help wondering what was happening to him—what was changing. He wasn’t alone in it. There were three others now. That thought, inevitably, led him back to Lillian and her eyes—a man could get lost in them and never want to be found.

He glanced around the small tent he hadn’t yet slept in, then stepped back outside to face the day.

The first thing he noticed was a group of troopers by the shore, gathering more driftwood for the fire. He looked north, toward where the remnants of civilization had gone. It was anyone’s guess where they’d end up. The orbital pictures of the planet were too small to make out many details. SATCOM would be operational by late tomorrow afternoon—thank the stars for those transport cases at the Institute. One more day and they’d have been lost, already en route to a moon of the gas giant Enclodia.

The area around the knoll was nearly empty now. Supplies and equipment had been moved inland—troopers working around the clock. They needed a permanent location soon, somewhere stable enough to activate the cryo pods and start growing livestock. The wild boar was tasty, sure, and plentiful—but it wouldn’t last forever.

The helicopter was finally taking shape. Jessrick stared at it, aching to climb inside and leave this cursed beach behind. Would it take him somewhere better? He chuckled softly. Anywhere with Lillian would be better. Blasted chopper—hurry up and finish. This waiting was eating at him.

He found the General scanning the landscape through field glasses. Jessrick was becoming familiar with the terrain now. It didn’t feel so foreign anymore. The planet had a beauty of its own—the pale blue grasses and ridged spines flowing across the gullies, the birds riding thermals far overhead in the clear sky.

The General cleared his throat. “It almost reminds me of the flatlands on Kelendra. Barely any grade—you can see for miles. That mountain range in the distance? Several hundred miles out. The scouts are sixty miles inland now. Terrain’s finally changing—they’re off the sand and into foothills. No fresh water yet, though. Our filters are struggling with the river. That spring lake at twenty miles was a wonderful find.”

He lowered the glasses with a sigh. “Blast it. SATCOM would be nice right about now. No sign of other occupants yet. I don’t like flying blind.”

Jessrick was about to reply, but the ground convulsed beneath them—hard enough to knock him to his knees. Rocks rattled like dice in a tin. The murder trees rolled their leaves and began to sway wildly. The tremor surged again before cutting off with a sharp final jolt.

Then—silence. A terrible, unnatural silence.

Jessrick pushed himself upright, heart pounding, and turned toward the ocean. His eyes widened. The sea was receding.

“Sir, we are not out of danger,” he said sharply, pointing. “That’s a tsunami coming.”

He keyed his mic. “This is Colonel Carvelin. We have a tsunami inbound! Troopers on the beach, get to the top of the knoll now—run!”

He watched the shoreline with dread. He’d seen vids of tsunamis before, but this—this was something else. The water was pulling back fast, and the troopers had a three-hundred-yard sprint to reach the hill. The General was shouting encouragement beside him.

“Come on, troopers! You can do it!”

The water was halfway back to the original shore now. There was no towering wave—just a massive surge, climbing higher and gaining speed.

Jessrick keyed the mic again. “Lieutenant Thornton, move the people to high ground immediately. I don’t know how far this will reach, but don’t take chances.”

“Nice call, Colonel. Come on, men—move it!” the General barked.

But Jessrick saw the truth in the General’s eyes. The troopers weren’t going to make it.

The water hit the knoll with a roar, slamming into the base and spraying ocean mist across the top. The first surge soaked everyone standing above. When the swell settled, the water had climbed to within twenty feet of where they stood.

“The people that were there…” General Brandeshen’s voice faltered. His face had gone pale. “If they hadn’t moved, they’d be gone.”

He turned to Jessrick. “Did that Oren character know? If he did, I’ll pin a medal on him.”

Below, the ocean had swallowed everything, save the knoll and a few murder trees clinging to the rim. The first line of trees had been ripped from the ground and smashed into those behind, forming a jagged logjam that hurled sprays of water into the air.

The current pushed inland for nearly an hour, carrying debris—trees, shrubs, even dead rammits. Jessrick thought he saw a body float past.

His stomach twisted. The people inland… There had been no contact. The repeaters must have been destroyed. A cold seed of fear—or dread—burrowed deeper into his chest.

/////
part2.2
Magnus glanced to Oren who was shoveling flat cakes to not his mouth, Tomas was shaking his head, so that head shake was contagious! It was most likely that interacting with Oren was the cause and nobody seemed immune to it. 

Magnus returned to his musings when he felt, a rip, a pop then a little rumble like his stomach would probably do after eating this, food. Oren immediately stood up a started screaming. " Must leave! must leave! Dangerous! Must go!" He looked directly at Magnus with the looked of a trapped animal. He then was Pulling Daphne by the arm. He then looked at Tomas, "Must go! Follow us!"

Oren was odd but there was fear in his eyes. It was that look that made him follow. He started to wonder about that rumble, there was something about it and he didn't question Oren's order. 

They had made it twenty paces when the ground rolled beneath Magnus's feet causing him to stumble to the ground. How can you run from an earthquake, he could not even stand up? There were yells and screaming from children and adults alike. The quake continued to rumble. Rattling all around could be heard throughout the little camp. Could it be that Orens  warning was never a threat?

Magnus felt the quake in a whole new way. There was energy, that he could ride, through the ground ripples racing inland. The energy excited him it was similar to getting shocked. As improbable as it seemed, there it was there none the less like a pulse racing through his body. 

The quaking ended abruptly that gave an odd sense of stillness. Magus seemed to climb from the ground. All around people were picking themselves up. He could still hear the children. Everyone's eyes seem twice as large as normal.

Oren was not finished. He was still on his feet amazingly. He still had a grip on Daphne pulling her up the small hill that the murder trees were on. still shouting, " Must go! Must come!"

 A trooper that Magnus did not know began to bellow, " Move to the high ground! There a tsunami coming! Move people move!"

A tsunami, of course! Magnus wondered why he hadn't thought of that first.Twenty miles away, how far was far enough away. The grade they followed was flat but the river valley was wide and would help the water. He knew the second wave was usually the biggest tapering off for hours. Would that little hill be high enough. Would the murder trees finally get there fill? Magnus did not know. He began to run to the trees.  

It did not take long to accent to the top of the dike running along the river was only ten or fifteen feet tall. It was about twenty-five feet to the river bank. Magnus began to shake his head. 

The people were hesitant about coming near the trees, the were just standing below in the flats. He looked to the trees, they seemed braced for impact, they had there leaves rolled into tight cylinders. He was directly beneath one,  not one branch quivered. " Come on people! Get up here, quickly! There may be a flood on its way." 
Magnus looked towards the way they had come and thought he saw a glint approaching. " Here comes the water! Hurry! Get up here it's your only chance!"

With what seemed a sigh, the people began to climb. Others were starting to run when Magnus watched a woman trip and fall then immediately reached to her ankle with pain apparent on her face. Nobody was there to help, she was one of the last to reach the hill.

Magnus looked back to the water that that was plainly scene now, you could even hear it now. He quickly judged the timing the took off at run downhill towards the lady. Tomas was by his side as the two sprinted to the rescue, just a couple more steps. 

The lady was slight of build in her mid thirties. " My ankle." She groaned as the two men helped her up. She gave a cry of pain as Tomas put her over his shoulder like a bag of sand then sprinted back to the small hill. Magnus followed along racing to the uncertain safety of the trees.

Magnus began catching his breath while Tomas gently laid the woman on the ground. Her ankle was definitely broken. She was not having a good day, a matter of fact none of them were.

Magnus turned back in time to watch a foot of water demolish the tents and carry of numerous cases and trunks. It raced the direction they were traveling faster than a man could run. The noise was deafening as the water splashed through the small ravines and hills that made up the landscape. The water went across as far as he could see and was climbing up the small dike. It quickly climbed it's way to within a two or three feet from the refuge they all waited apon. The water stilled for a brief moment before it began to receed to where it came from. He thought he saw a body float away, it could of been a tree limb though, he hoped it was a tree limb. The water was gone as quick as it had came, leaving a changed land behind. The small ring of trees that had encompassed the small lake  looked shorter. Sand had filled in the lake and tried to bury the trees. Magnus could do nothing but shake his head and take a seat on the ground.
/////

Delbert wasn’t sure if the planet was trying to kill them, but he was certain Specialist Henry was.

The man had marched them deep into the night, given them a “cat nap,” as he called it, then drove them onward into the morning. He didn’t allow the cadets to use night-vid or headlights.

“Cupcakes need no light. You’re not always gonna have your eyes. Just say you’re all pretending to be good little P.O.W.s for now.”

Eyes. Delbert wanted to take the fist leader’s eyes out and see how he liked it. Then the man had said:

“In fact, I think you gonna do it blindfolded. Now don’t none of you little caramels let go of that lifeline. Don’t wanna lose any of ya. Right, Ryder?”

Ryder, who was tall and lanky with medium skin tone, looked over the cadets. The man seemed to wear a permanent scowl. He smiled slightly and said,

“Real shame that’d be. Sarge be a might disappointed, I’d say. Might not take too kindly ‘bout that. But then again…”

Blindfolded? The man was crazy! Then Delbert saw the cord. Each cadet squad took a place behind a trooper with night-vid. It was supposed to build trust in the group. Delbert wasn’t sure he trusted the fist leader.

All through the night, there were sounds of birds chirping that eerily resembled the word, “Why. Why.” Then there were other sounds—the grunts and whines that could turn a person’s legs into wet noodles.

After what seemed like an eternity, they stopped. Delbert wasn’t sure what came next. He’d been told by Sergeant Glassby that these Specialists were tough as nails. Delbert wanted to be a hammer and smash that nail.

“You can all take off the blindfolds now. We’ve arrived at Forty Mile Base. We didn’t beat the mini, but you saved your little dolls.”

Specialist Henry inspected the group. With a nod, he dismissed them for breakfast. The sun was beginning to stain the sky with its green hue. The small red moon lingered on the opposite horizon.

Delbert looked around. There wasn’t much to see—only a handful of canopies, stacks of crates, and a few large tents. Just seeing the crates made his shoulders ache. Even ship droids got more rest than he had lately.

He slowly made his way to the mess. His heart’s anger faded as he reached the food table, but he nearly groaned when he saw the same fatty meat strips and gruel.

There were no tables or benches to sit on, so Delbert chose a spot on the ground to eat. It wasn’t long before Specialist Henry came over and sat beside him.

Great, Delbert mused. No one’s going to come sit with me while this lunatic of a Specialist is next to me. The cadets seemed to be actively avoiding any of the Specialists.

“I see that screwed-up face you got. Don’t worry, you won’t have to eat this stuff forever. We’ll run out of it in a few weeks.”

Henry began spooning gruel into his mouth.

“Specialist, are you trying to scare me?”

“You should be scared. But don’t let that fear eat ya alive. Nor that anger show on your face.”

“Yes, Specialist.”

Delbert spooned more of the gruel into his mouth, hoping there would be no more questions.

He noticed Specialist Henry eating in a way that reminded him of Sarlo. Well, at least he wasn’t talking. The guy probably scared kids for fun—with a face like that, it wouldn’t be hard.

“For those that aren’t too scared…” Henry looked at Delbert with a long, uncomfortable stare. “Or those who can keep their emotions in check—you’ll go bunk down in those tents for a spell and continue this little journey of ours. Otherwise, you can stay here until the rest arrive.”

He drained the rest of his red juice and rose.

Delbert watched the Specialist leave the tent, a sense of dread tightening in his chest. As he finished his mush, he thought of never eating his mother’s cooking again. His rivalry with his brother had erased any hope of that. What Specialist Henry didn’t know was that Delbert was anything but scared.

Time to light some boosters, he thought, steeling the reserves within and rising to his feet.

Robert saw him stand and began to rise as well.

It was at that moment that Delbert realized a silence had fallen—one accompanied by a chill that vibrated through his body. A wave of earth rocked the walls of the tent. Betrayed by his legs, he found himself on the ground again, but only briefly.

He got up as others did the same. Then he heard Specialist Henry’s voice:

“Cadets, assemble for roll call! Front and center!”

Delbert filed out with the rest, just as ordered.

“Move it, people, move!” Henry bellowed as they formed ranks.

Delbert wondered if the Specialist was ever going to lose his voice.

“This... tremor has caused a tsunami to sweep inland.” Henry gave a quick glance around the group, then continued. “We can’t be sure if it will reach this far, but as a precaution, we’ll move to the high ground—there.”

He pointed toward what people had come to call the murder trees. Delbert noticed for the first time that the leaves were rolled into tight cylinders.

“As usual, please watch out for the numerous thorn bushes—we don’t want any numb cadets. Now, company left, move out!”

It was a short walk to the large berm that ran alongside the lazy river. Specialist Zarah stood like a sentinel, studying the direction they had come from. What Delbert had heard about her was that she was a no-nonsense woman who expected people to jump when she said jump. What he saw now was focused calm—like a spring ready to be sprung.

She, like the rest, watched the horizon toward the ocean. It was forty miles away, but the land seemed completely flat. The only real change in elevation was the dike the murder trees stood on. Here, under the enormous trees, they were a good fifty feet higher than the river.

It was hard to tell who was actually in charge of the Specialists. They wore no visible rank, and Delbert didn’t know much about them before signing up as a cadet. What was said about them left you with a feeling of awe—and fear. They were rumored to be responsible for putting down rebellions, assassinations, and secret black projects.

Still, they all seemed to defer to Henry. Right now, three of the ten Specialists were huddled in conference with him. The meeting quickly ended, and Specialist Henry addressed the cadets.

“All right, you little gumdrops,” he said. “We’ve had reports of a large tsunami wave raging inland, and we’ve lost comms with Base and Camp One. Judging from the speed and height of the wave, we’ll stand our ground here for the next twenty minutes and reassess after that. You may stand down—as long as you don’t leave the top of the dike.

“One other thing—these trees.” He eyed the massive sentinels towering overhead. “It might be best if you don’t wander too far or make any sudden movements. Dismissed.”

“Stay in rank,” Delbert ordered quietly.

He wanted to be ready at a moment’s notice if the Specialist gave the order. Standing in rank meant no talking—and he wasn’t sure he had any answers for the questions the others might ask anyway. He wanted the focus, the discipline, to steel his mind.

He noticed his twin had also chosen to keep his squad in rank. That seemed to influence the others to follow suit and wait. The Specialists eyed them, and then Henry released a small smile.

Delbert wished he wouldn’t smile. It was truly horrendous, that wide grin carved by a massive scar.

He looked again at the massive trees. Their huge leaves were still rolled into tight cylinders. Delbert had never seen a plant move so fast. Come to think of it, he’d never seen one move—until now.

Everyone was looking up at the trees—so fondly referred to as murder trees.

How do the Specialists even know if these are safe? he wondered. They’ve already killed one man.

The long minutes passed slowly as the cadets stood quietly in formation.

/////
Daphne inspected the devastating effects of the flood. Not one item was left from the supplies, not plate, not boot, not a scrap of fabric. She looked to where the small lake was, there were only a few trees that ringed the shore that was now filled with sand. The cracks and crevices we're also filled with sand. 

The injury report was starting to filter in. It would take time to get a head count. She knew of the broken ankle but she had not known of the dozen people who were pricked by the blue spines giving them useless arms or legs for a few hours. She did not like the missing that were reported, three so far had been swept away.

The trees were now unfurling their leaves, people began to run from the trees now and some just froze. Daphne did not fear the trees. 

Oren was  inspecting the people around. When his eyes met her he looked sad. "Tasty? Gone?" 

Daphne would of laughed, if she could but she did not find anything else funny. " Yes. The food is gone, well this part at least." The people had nothing but the clothes on they're backs, a fare number of them had retained they're backpacks thankfully, too many had not. 

The woman was still on the ground giving a groan or a grunt every once in a while. Daphne wanted to help but the first med cart was gone with the water as well as the only medic they had. There would be no relief for the pain. It galled Daphne that she couldn't help numb the pain. She glanced to the ones that had useless limbs from running into the blue spine bushes giving her an idea  "Tomas. Will you get one of those blue spine branches. Carefully mind you. I think it may be of use since the med cart is gone. We also need to make a splint, if we can find a couple of sticks."

Lieutenant Shores was approaching now. He had a look of disgust that Daphne felt it as well, this whole situation was so terribly disgusting. The loss of supplies, lives and home seemed so dire. "Captain,  I see you have survived this... Mess." He said as he looked around at the scene of destruction and continued, "We need to get a head count and tally of injured. This is." He looked to the people again, "Going to be a challenge. Camp two is mostly set up. Fortunately we were able to contact the troopers there and the water did not make it there. I made contact with base camp. They survived on the knoll but they are somewhat trapped untill the chopper is complete. They commanded us to continue onward." He looked to the he people shaking his head. "Most of the civilians have lost they're packs. I've told the troopers at camp two to bring water and rations back to us. Losing our food, the water purifier along with shelter is going to hurt." He then looked to the sky where the clouds were beginning to form. "Blast it! Doesn't this just burn hull? No don't answer that. Let's just get that head count, then get these people moving inland."

It wasn't long after the Lieutenant left that Tomas returned with a blue spine branch and two branches. " Captain, I'm no medic, but how are we going to splint an ankle. I broke mine once and they put a boot on, I suppose there is one in the medic wagon, but." He trailed off not quite sure what to say as he looked to where the camp used to be then to Daphne.

Daphne took a deep breath, she was no medic either. She took her digi-pad out to look through the roster of civilians to search if there was any doctor's. A few moments later she discovered that the only doctor disappeared with the missing the night before. "The hits just keep coming." she thought to herself. " I'll radio for one of the minis to bring a boot. Without a Dr. we'll just have to hope it doesn't need set. We can at least ease the pain for her I believe. She'll just have to wait for a ride in a wagon. Go ahead and gather the people of blue group for a head count. I'll help the woman for now."

Daphne walked back to the lady that was laying on the ground with her face of pain. The blue spine she held should help her, she hoped it would not kill her with a bad reaction. 

Oren was standing next to the lady with a look of sadness it seemed. She had never seen the look of compassion on him before. She had seen anger, curiosity, joy and even fear before. He looked to the branch of thorns she held and compassion turned to curiosity.  "Must learn." He said with half a smile.

"Must learn, what?" Daphne asked.

" Yes, must learn." Oren responded to Daphne.

" Oren, you don't make any sense you know." Daphne said. She knelt next to the woman, " What's your name ma'am?"

"Ma'am." The lady tried to laugh but winched when she moved. "That what I call my great mother. I'm not that old. I'm Deldra, Deldra Strong. What's with the thorn branch?"

"Sorry didn't mean to offend you, it's just a habit that was drilled into my father. The thorns seem to numb for a few hours. Our med wagon was washed away, this seems the best thing to help with pain for now." Daphne pulled up her pant leg and tried to pull it up gently but Deldra groaned in pain. Then she took the blue spine branch with two inch spikes and pressed the spine just above the ankle. A small drop of blood oozed out.

A look of wonder came over Deldras face and a slight smile followed. " That works fast. It's numb from the knee down. I can't feel a thing. It's like my lower leg is gone."

"Well that a small miracle at least. That shoe needs to come off now. We have a boot that is being delivered but it will take a couple hours to get it here." Daphne then began to unlace here shoe gently. While concentrating on the ankle Daphne could swear she saw an ugly red beneath the skin and sense something. " I hope I'm not losing my mind from stress" she thought to herself.

"Yes yes, you learn!" Oren said. He was squatting next to Daphne taking turns  looking at Deldras ankle then Daphne.

Daphne felt half shocked about what Oren had said. This whole planet gave her shivers, strange plants, strange dreams, strange storms, this planet was just downright strange.  "Learned what, Oren? Do you see it to?" She said as she focused on his eyes.

"Must learn, yes must learn." He replied, cocking his head from side to side. He looked hen stood up and started moving around. He didn't stay in one place long.

Daphne gave a quick shake of her and Magnus said, "Ha that head shake is contagious. I'm glad I not the only one. I feel like I have whiplash whenever I'm around him."

Daphne had forgotten all about Magnus. He seemed to be the quiet type. " Do you see it to?" She asked him as she pointed to the ankle.

Magnus looked at the ankle briefly. Look to her, shrugged his shoulders. " Doesn't look to bad. It's not too swollen. Wasn't there a Dr that came through with us? Ahh, nope, we lost him the first night. Don't you have a medic?"

"We only had a squad for warehouse duty and two squads of newbies being transferred. I'll see if any of Sgt. Brady's is but I doubt it. Those guys are animals. They'd probably gnaw off the ankle and march on." Daphne said with a smile on her face. Both Magnus and Deldra gave a chuckle. "They wouldn't do us any good right now anyways. They're out of range now, because the repeater that we had here got washed away. Before the flood they were thirty miles ahead. Our ground comm is only good for twenty.

Daphne turned to Deldra asked her, "What group are you? We have to find your group for check-in."

"Red group." She answered.

"Ok well hang tight, we'll get that boot and get you a ride." Daphne looked to the ankle again, she would swear that she could see a vibration of red pulsing around the joint. She was going to extract an answer from Oren maybe one out of Magnus to.

/////

 Lillian day three

Lillian grabbed a cup of coffee from what the troopers called "The mess." She never understood why they called it that, maybe it was because the food looked like a mess on the plate. It tasted like a mess, that was for sure. She decided she was not hungry, the coffee would be fine enough for now. 

Leaving the pavilion she saw Oren eating flat cakes. Well he sure made a mess when eats. He stuffed his mouth like someone who hadn't eaten in a week. He looked like his was in a race.

Lillian found Serenla  and a few children, most of the children stayed near their parents. She started in her direction when she heard Oren begin to bellow. It was his usual barrage of words but there was something different this time, there seemed to be a note of panic in his voice. She looked backwards and saw Daphne being pulled out by Oren, followed closely by Magnus. Daphne looked confused while Magnus look concerned. She stood there waiting for them when a rumble follow by shaking sent her to her knees.

The shaking soon abated, and Lillian was able to regain her footing. Through the thin dust cloud that lingered in the air, she could hear the whimpering of children. She moved quickly toward Serenla, who was already back on her feet. Mauri clung tightly to her hand, tiny fingers digging in. Nearby, troopers were herding people toward the trees. Magnus ran up the shallow hill, motioning for everyone to follow.

For a few moments, everything felt hazy—shock clouding people’s expressions as much as the dust. Mauri’s cheeks were streaked with muddy tears. Some were coughing in the thick air.

“What... What’s going on, Lillian? Isn’t the quake done?” Serenla asked, her voice small and uncertain.

“We need to follow Magnus. Get to the top of that hill,” Lillian said, pointing to the tree-covered rise. “Everyone needs to get up there. Now.”

There was no time to explain. This was a moment for action. Her mind was screaming, and fear pressed hard against her chest. The families were starting to gather near them. Lillian moved quickly, guiding them uphill.

She was halfway up when she realized the people had stopped. They hesitated, eyes flicking nervously toward the murder trees, unwilling to go any closer than absolutely necessary. Then she saw it—the river surging over the smaller hills behind them, the water racing like a living thing.

“Serenla! Come on, please! People—get to safety! Hurry!” she shouted, pointing behind them at the wall of water. The urgency in her voice broke the paralysis. People began to run.

Lillian grabbed Mauri’s hand and pulled her forward. They ran under the cover of the trees and continued climbing. The others followed now, stumbling, gasping. She heard Oren—his voice a high-pitched screech—outpacing them all as he bolted to the top.

When Lillian reached the crest, she turned and looked back. The river was rising at an alarming rate, spilling like a liquid monster across the land. Still, more people ran up the hill, each one looking more terrified than the last.

She searched the hillside below. Her heart dropped—Karmela was nowhere in sight.

/////

Chapter: Swept Away

Karmela had taken to the high ground on the hill they’d been following. It was dotted with blue spines, one of which had clearly pricked a refugee some thirty feet below. She didn’t worry about her choice—she ran down the slow grade. There was no way she was going to let this blasted world take another life. She could see the water coming but thought she could make it.

She hoisted the small woman over her shoulder and made haste back up the hill with her burden. A quick glance showed the approaching wave—impossibly fast, like the rising tide at a beach. She was halfway up when the water ripped at her ankles. People were trying to grab her hand as she began to float away at an alarming rate.

The military backpack—more like a vest—served as a flotation device. The undertow kept trying to drag her under as she floated in the trough of the waves that had trapped her.

It felt like an eternity, being at the mercy of nature. Then the water level began to recede. Trees and bushes to her left slowly emerged. The pull of the water shifted, dragging her back in the direction she’d come. She saw the beach—it was right there. Fighting the current with all her strength, she swam toward it.

Yes—her feet hit the shore! She was going to make it, she thought… until she tripped over a rock and slammed into the ground. The impact of her head brought a swift, consuming blackness.

Some unknown time later, light returned to her eyes. As her senses came back, she felt something being pressed against her forehead. The world came into focus, revealing a trooper lying beside her on his side.

He exhaled, relieved. “Just relax. You’ve got a nasty gash on your head. I managed to stop the bleeding. Head wounds bleed a lot. You should be alright, though.”

“Thank you. Do you know where we are?” Karmela’s head pounded, and the light was harsh on her eyes. She was soaked and cold.

“We’re about three hundred yards from the river, I think. You can see the murder trees over there. That’s all I know without GPS. I haven’t been able to go far—my legs were paralyzed by a blue spine. I ended up about fifty feet from you and managed to crawl over. I used the two-way to contact the lieutenant. I don’t know your name, but I told them you survived.”

“I’m Karmela. I work at the Academy. I’m the counselor there. Can you let Lillian know I’m alright? She probably thinks I’m dead.” She winced as she turned her head to look at him. “You know my name, but I don’t know yours.”

“Oh—sorry. I’m Sergeant Karls Carson. I’ll be happy to let her know you’re okay.” He keyed the two-way again. “They’re sending a team to find us. Might take a little time.”

He dragged his pack over and rummaged inside. He pulled out two protein bars and handed one to Karmela. “Better eat. We need calories; they’ll help warm you up.”

Karmela took the bar, unwrapped it, and began to eat. Her face twisted as she studied it.

“This tastes… odd. I’ve never had one. What’s in it?”

Karls gave a slight smile. “Ah, we call them bug bars. Mostly protein, reinforced with vitamins and minerals. You get used to them.”

“Bug bars? Please don’t tell me they’re made of bugs.” She frowned and eyed it suspiciously.

“Umm… okay. I won’t.” He took another bite.

“That’s not reassuring. You didn’t say they aren’t made from bugs.”

“You told me not to tell you.” Karls shrugged, chewing calmly.

Karmela’s face turned a little green. “So they are made from bugs. Gross! I think I’m going to be sick.”

“Good thing you never took the survival course. They make you eat all kinds of things. These taste better than most. If you want, I’ve got some fruit leather.”

“You’re going to tell me it’s made out of actual leather, aren’t you?” She held the bar like it might bite her.

“No. Not actual leather. It’s just about as tough as good boot leather, though. But the bars are better for you. I’ve never heard of anyone having an adverse reaction… unless you count emotional trauma.” He smirked.

Karmela took a deep breath and took another reluctant bite. They sat in silence, eating and waiting for the rescue team.
Kael Riven

/////
Night was a little longer here on this new planet, and the stars were foreign. A chill breeze drifted through the air, carrying away the fog of Jor’s breath. He glanced at the large shape of Tarlin sleeping on the ground. He wondered how he was going to keep Tarlin from beating Karls into a pupil—or eating him. Well, he wouldn’t actually eat Karl, although Tarlin’s clan had been known to dispose of trespassers.

He didn’t mind that his friend was a little prickly—it kept the others on their toes. Besides, Tarlin would never attack someone from his own clan. And for better or worse, they were all part of the same clan now.

The abundance of rammits had been a welcome change in diet—they didn’t come from a can or a bag. They actually tasted good, and they were big. One was enough for two men, and still they couldn’t finish it. They’d seen large boar-like creatures too, which is why Jor stood watch while Tarlin took his turn napping.

It was going to be a long day getting into the valley where they needed to test the water from the falls. That first spring they’d found had exceptionally clean drinking water—far better than the flat, filtered water they’d been using.

It was a race now—between them and the helicopter that was still growing from nanobots. The General of the Home Guard was overseeing its assembly. While all twenty specialists could technically fly, only one was certified as an atmospheric pilot: Jessrick. All they were waiting on were reinforcements—and first light. The falls were about ten miles away, but Jor figured it would feel more like twenty on foot, if they could even get there. It might take the chopper to find access at all.

Jor got up to toss a few more pieces of deadwood into the fire, although the light made him feel exposed to unknown dangers. The night was eerily silent, broken only by the pop and crackle of the flames—and Tarlin’s half-snores that punctuated the stillness. Dawn was still two hours away, and it would be nearly another hour before the other three arrived. At least then, he’d get some rest.

The next hour crawled by. Jor alternated between pacing and feeding the fire. Eventually, he spotted the faint lights of the buggy drawing closer.

“Tarlin, they’re here. Rise and shine!”

“There better be some caf ready,” Tarlin grumbled as he stretched. “And I’m not babysitting anyone. That’s your job.”

“Yeah, well, lucky me,” Jor muttered, eyeing the buggy as it rolled to a stop. It was towing the cryo-vault trailer—the most important piece of tech they had. It held crop seeds from three worlds, and even some frozen livestock embryos. But the vault would be worthless without good water and soil. And while he hoped the valley would offer both, he had his doubts about anything coming easy.

He was surprised to see Mirael Voss behind the wheel, with a trooper beside her. Mirael was middle-aged, with sharp dark eyes and a calm demeanor. Jor had only met her on this deployment—she was quiet, but competent.

“How’d you get roped into driving?” he asked as she stepped down.

“The Admiral insisted we bring the cryo-vault,” she replied simply.

“More like the Guard has everyone organizing supplies again,” Specialist Kael Riven offered from the back. “Feels like all they do is sort and count.”

“They’re good at what they do,” Jor said with a small nod. “The Admiral was pleasantly surprised by them.”

Three men climbed down from the back of the buggy and saluted Jor.

“Good to see you guys again. How do you like our little slice of life?” Jor returned the salute with a fist to his chest.

Mirael shut off the buggy while Kael and the others unloaded supplies. Tronus Vey stepped down last, cradling a rifle modified for long-range scanning. Sonya Tarell, quiet as ever, was already pulling a compact drone unit from the storage rack.

“Report to me when you’re ready,” Jor said, gesturing toward the valley’s edge. “We’re making a push through the Fingers at first light.”

Sonya gave a crisp nod. Vexen Orl, lean and pale with deep-set eyes, kept glancing at the conifers lining the steep hill ahead. “You're going up through that?”

“It’s the only route that might lead directly to the falls,” Jor said. “Thats why Narek and Tronus are taking the minis further east.”

“I’ll take rocks over minis,” Vexen muttered, adjusting his gear.

They made camp at the base of the Fingers while Tarlin reheated a few slabs of rammit over the fire. Morning light cracked over the hills by the time they divided tasks. Jor pointed toward the craggy slope and the towering granite spires above it.

“Tarlin and I are taking Vexen through the Fingers. We’ll crest the ridge and look for a way down to the valley floor.  Narek, Tronus you recon for  a lower lower trail in to the Valley. Sonya, Tronus—you lead that team. Try to follow the waterline if it forks.”

Vexen didn’t look thrilled, but he nodded. Tarlin clapped a hand on his shoulder with a grin. “Try not to fall. I’d hate to carry you back down.”

Kael stepped forward. “I’d rather go with you through the Fingers that ride all the way back. That Oren is strange. his eyes seem to bore a hole through you when he looks at you. It's like he knows everything about you. One time he came and tried to take my bug bar from me. Some female Trooper gave him on of his own. You heard about the large tiger that follows him around haven't you?”

“No, I've been briefed though. ” Jor shook his head. 

They set out at dawn and started climbing the steep incline through the large conifer trees that seemed complety normal on this strange planet. After an hour of acending the finger eventually came into view. The Fingers were worse up close—huge granite needles that jutted hundreds of feet into the air, flanked by fractured stone and pine trees with roots half exposed. A boulder field stretched across the lower third, filled with loose rocks that shifted underfoot.

Jor took point, picking a zig-zagging path upward. The incline forced them to slow down, test each step. Tarlin moved like a bulldozer, pushing his way up while Vexen found smaller paths to flank them.

They reached the crest after another hour of climbing. The spires loomed like silent watchers above them, and the valley spread out in glimpses between them—a lush basin of green and mist. Jor let out a breath. “We’re almost there.”

That’s when the ground moved.

At first it felt like a vibration—like a distant engine or underground wind. Then came the roar. The earth cracked beneath them, stones breaking free in chunks. The ridge trembled violently. Jor shouted but the sound vanished under the roar.

Tarlin grabbed a nearby tree and braced. Jor dove flat. But Vexen—

The edge where Vexen stood gave way completely. Granite and gravel tumbled in a landslide, and Vexen with it. Jor lunged forward, but it was too late. He saw Vexen’s eyes, wide, just before he vanished into the fall.

“VEXEN!”

The edge beneath him sheared away. Granite, gravel, and Vexen all vanished in a single, grinding collapse. Jor lunged forward, too late.
He caught one final glimpse—Vexen’s wide eyes—before the rocks consumed him.

/////

For the next couple of hours, Jessrick watched as the ocean receded and then advanced again. The surrounding sand was gone, leaving only bare, pitted, and gouged rock. The path they had used to climb the small hill had vanished, cutting off their easy route down. The first hundred feet of murder trees had been uprooted, forming a massive logjam of twisted and tangled trunks. Pools of water lay scattered across the area where the people had been just yesterday. The hab-units had vanished, leaving no trace behind.

Jessrick remembered the final moments of the five troopers caught in the flood. That left fifteen troopers stranded on the knoll, which now resembled a massive boulder. They would need rope to rappel down. Their food and water wouldn’t last more than a few days—most of the supplies below had been washed away. He could only hope the people had been far enough away to escape the flood. So far, there had been no response on the radio.

Eighteen hundred people, their fate unknown—a weight that both he and General Brandeshen had to endure. The safety of the people was their responsibility, and now he felt as helpless as a babe in a snowstorm.

They weren’t technically stranded. The helicopter would be finished soon, and then they could resupply the camp. Once SAT-NAV was completed, someone would have to man it—but that wouldn’t be for another seven days. Until then, they couldn’t communicate more than ten miles out.

There was nothing to do but wait. Jessrick hated waiting. He preferred action.

He circled the summit of the hill, passing the helicopter, which was slowly taking shape beside the communications building that would serve as headquarters.

General Brandenshen had barely left the tent since the initial swell. Jessrick had worked under him for two years now. They were both born on Parsenla and had transferred to Terrell to clean up a command riddled with fraud and theft. Together, they had turned the post into a well-oiled machine.

For the first time, Jessrick was worried about the General. Brandeshen had become sullen and withdrawn. Jessrick knew he blamed himself for the landing site. He’d tried to offer words of comfort, but one look at the man’s face told him the sympathy wasn’t welcome.

So, he had gone outside to walk in the sun. There really wasn’t anything to do but wait. He looked toward the helicopter, growing piece by piece, and wished he could hasten the process. Judging by what he could see of the transformed terrain, travel by wheeled vehicle would be impossible. Even on foot, it would be brutally difficult now. The small ravines that had once been mostly covered with sand were now deeper, exposing bare bedrock, scarred by the erosion of floodwaters.

Three hours passed after the tsunami with no communication from the horde of refugees. Three became four, then six—still no response. The more time that passed, the heavier the worry became.

He would not know the fate of the people until the helicopter was finished. And he didn’t know if that would happen before nightfall.
/////
chapter The rain begins a soggy walked

Magnus was beginning to realize something strange was happening. Before the earthquake, his mind had gone somewhere—like it had taken a journey of its own. There was a moment, just a sliver of time, that felt frozen. He might have missed it, if it hadn’t lasted forever. His body had locked up, like the world had paused.

Then came the vibrations—first from the quake, then from what he now knew was the flood, racing up the river.

And through it all, the dream played again in his head. That first night: winds howling, rivers of color streaking across the sky. And Daphne—surrounded by a strange glow as she tended a woman’s ankle. Of all the things, that glow stuck with him.

He turned to watch Oren—or something that looked like him. This wasn’t the same man. He moved differently, spoke with a new cadence, carried himself like someone else entirely. If Magnus stared long enough, he could see a faint aura pulsing around him—though not like the one he’d seen around Daphne.

Yes, things were changing. Fast.

A trooper approached—Magnus recognized the insignia now. Lieutenant.

“I'm Lieutenant Shelton Shores. You’re Magnus, right?” the man asked.

“I was, last I checked.”

The lieutenant chuckled. “I’m guessing that was a tsunami. I’ve never heard of one going more than five or ten miles inland. So... how did the water reach us all the way out here?”

Magnus nodded slowly. “Well, it was a massive quake. I’d guess there was an underwater landslide. Add to that the flat terrain and the river—think of the river like a slick track. It gave the wave an easy path.”

The lieutenant frowned. “So... we could get hit again?”

“I hope not. But if the current reverses again, we might.”

“And the food? Did we lose it all?”

“Not all,” the lieutenant said. “There’s more at the next camp, forty miles out. You think it’ll reach that far?”

Magnus studied the river. The current, which had reversed once already, looked like it might be slowing again. “I don’t know. Let’s hope not.”

“One last question—how long until it’s safe to move on?”

Magnus pointed toward the river. “We’ll need to watch this next swell. It might rock back and forth a while longer. Could be hours.”

The river did rise again, but only halfway to the last high-water mark before receding. This time, no water escaped the banks. No surge blocked the path ahead.

Maybe—just maybe—it was safe to move forward, Magnus thought, watching the Lieutenant walk toward Captain Daphne.

***
Daphne watched as Lieutenant Shelton Shores finished speaking with Magnus and headed in her direction. She met him halfway, stopping to salute.

“Captain. How’s… your patient?” he asked.

“Pain-free, thanks to the blue spines, sir.”

“Are you sure they’re safe to use like that? They haven’t exactly gone through much testing.”

“I saw a man get pricked by one yesterday. He seemed fine today. The effects lasted about four hours, and he was already using his arm again. I imagine if you got stuck with enough of them, they’d be lethal—but without a med kit, it was the only thing I could think of. I believe she broke her ankle.”

“Trooper Carson and an Academy guidance counselor washed up about ten miles up from us. They’re both okay, although his legs are paralyzed—likely from the spines. He’s managed to contact Camp Three. They’ll load the buggies with food and water and start heading this way—and look for Carson. But we still need to get these people moving. No telling if the buggies can even reach us.”

He looked off toward their path ahead. The land was no longer flat. Scattered pools of water now pocked the ground—some of them quite large.

Daphne was only now realizing just how precarious the situation truly was. More civilians were gathering, and she noticed several were missing their packs—no water bottles, no food. She didn’t have hers either. The portable water purifier that had been strapped below was gone.

Reports were coming in. Head counts. Six people were missing—one of them the Governor.

“We’re going to have to carry her,” Daphne said, glancing back toward the injured woman. “I don’t see anything we can use as a stretcher.”

“She’ll have to be carried, then,” Shores agreed. “There’s no food or water to spare—and no guarantee a buggy will reach us.”

He paused, watching the receding water. Then: “Sergeant Glassby will take point when we move out. Get your squad ready. We’ll find something to make a stretcher with.”
*****

Lillian’s joy was hard to contain after hearing the news of Karmela’s survival. She had gathered all the students and families with help from Trooper Paisley. All forty-three students were accounted for, along with seventy-five parents.

She clung to that joy—the joy of Karmela surviving—as she faced the fear and uncertainty on the families’ faces.

Paisley had passed along the order: they were to begin the journey as soon as they were ready.

Above them, the towering trees slowly began to unroll their leaves. Vines shifted and writhed as they came to life. People had heard what one of those trees had done to a man. Pale faces stared, frozen like prey. But the fear began to fade as the trees settled again, the leaves fully extended, casting long shadows across the ground.

Lillian took the lead, guiding her group along the top of the hill. She had decided the trees were safe—that they only reacted to violence. The tree dream was still fresh in her mind. She wasn’t afraid of them. Wary, yes. But not afraid.

As she walked, she caught whispers about her and Magnus sleeping under the tree the night before. Oddly, the rumors seemed to ease people’s nerves as they weaved through the forest.

A crisp breeze rose behind her. If she focused on it—really focused—she could sense it differently. It fuzzed around her mind, like pinpoints of color swirling in a current of air. She blinked it away, shaking off the vision, and turned her focus to one step at a time.

Those steps turned into hours.

Children began to complain of being tired. The terrain had forced them under the trees; the open landscape was covered in hills and pits of shifting sand.

Was this their future now? Endless hours of wandering, searching for a place to live?

The struggle, she realized, had only just begun.


***
As Daphne walked with the others, she studied the oddity that Oren had become. A nonchalance had settled over him, broken only by the occasional smirk or scowl. Small flocks of birds kept circling him—tiny yellow ones, large green ones, and others painted with nearly every hue. Some hovered close to Oren, chirping softly, while others shrieked with piercing cries. She even heard one croak. Some dive-bombed and twisted through the air; others glided silently overhead. If it weren’t for the uncertainty of their situation, she might have marveled at the beauty.

The minutes slowly turned to hours. The buggies had been unable to reach them, halting ten miles short when the terrain grew too difficult. The column of refugees moved slowly toward aid. Daphne snorted at the thought of calling it rescue—this was barely assistance. Rescue felt like a faint hope as the sky darkened and the temperature began to fall.

What started as a mist turned into a drizzle, and then into steady rain. So much for the beauty—they were going to get wet. The chill settled into her bones. The rain consumed her thoughts, dragging her into a hypnotic trance.

Only when hunger overtook the misery of wet clothes and cold feet did she notice a few pavilions up ahead, hastily erected with a handful of soldiers standing beneath them. There clearly wasn’t enough cover for everyone. The silence among the refugees was deafening. Daphne could feel the desperation and resignation hanging in the air.

As much as she wanted to stop walking, she knew they had to keep moving—if for no other reason than to stay warm. People would have to cram into the few remaining emergency shelters salvaged from their packs if the rain kept up much longer.

Rations were handed out as they drove the people onward. The civilians grumbled. Some complained that a short rest wouldn’t hurt. Others longed for dryness or better food. Daphne sympathized. A warm house was sorely missed.

The buggies with trailers rumbled slowly past, loaded with children huddled beneath canopy covers. The sodden ground allowed the buggies to cut deep trenches, and Daphne worried they might get stuck. At least the children were dry.

Oren continued beside her, silent, a smear of bug bar paste running down his chin. The rain slowly washed it away, but he didn’t seem to notice. Maybe he was bothered. Maybe not. His silence was unnerving.



***
Karmela sat in the small shelter with Karls Carson. She guessed he was about ten years younger than her—probably around twenty-four. His medium skin tone and dark hair set off his green eyes. He had an easy manner about him that quickly put her at ease, reassuring her they would be found.

He’d explained that he joined the Home Guard so he could be stationed on the frontier of Terrell. He was born Romanus, from the mother world of Parsenla. His parents had run a bakery in the heart of the city. He’d grown up surrounded by theater, music, and festivals. At one point, he’d even played drums in a band. Thinking about music reminded her of Gladious, who had disappeared that first night on this strange new planet.

Rain began to fall gently against the shelter.

They sat close in the small space, and Karmela shared her own story. She’d been born in the seaside town of Italius on Kelendra, near the Great Ocean. Her father fished with a small fleet; her mother was a seamstress. Karls chuckled when she told him about sneaking away to attend extreme sports events—only to be dragged home by authorities. She also spoke of the Cape Regataz sailing race, where she was lucky to have survived, and of the offer that had brought her to Terrell: a guidance counselor position at a small academy.

The rain continued while they passed the time in talk. For a while, it felt like the recent chaos had lifted, leaving only quiet companionship and the warmth of shared memories. Karmela felt her body relax. The shelter, the rain, Karls’ presence—it all dulled the sharp edge of fear. She was deeply grateful for his company, and for the two-way radio he carried. Without it, things could have been much worse.

As time crept on and the rain fell steady, their conversation slowed, and they began trading yawns. Before long, both were asleep.

Karmela didn’t know how long she had slept when she was awakened by voices outside. She stirred groggily, then opened the door.

Two troopers stood there, soaked from the rain.

“We’re glad we found you so quickly,” one said. “It shouldn’t be too hard to get a buggy out here and bring you back to the others.”

***
After three hours of walking over uneven ground, boulders, and trees, Lillian arrived where a handful of pavilions stood. There was not enough room for everyone. Each pavilion would hold maybe one hundred people, if you packed them tight enough. Trooper Paisley had said they could carry about one hundred and twenty in the trailers at a time for transport to Camp Three. She had also been told that the children were on the first trip out. 

As Lilian got closer to the caravan of trailers, there were three attached to each buggy, She noticed a familiar friend walking toward her.

"Miss. Karmela!" Mauri screeched as the child ran to her and almost tackled her with a hug.

Lillian quickened her pace and gave her friend a hug. She noticed that Karmela was relatively dry as they walked to their covered ride, where blankets were handed out.

Lillian felt sorry for the others who still had to walk as she sat in the covered trailer with the children. As the buggy rocked and rolled over the uneven terrain, the little ones gradually dozed off, bundled under the blankets they’d brought.

Under the cover of her own blanket, Lillian began to dry out.

She rode along in the silence that everyone still awake seemed to prefer. That was fine—she preferred it too. There didn’t seem to be anything worth saying. That left her alone with her thoughts.

She thought about being reunited with Karmela, which inevitably led her to think of Colonel Jessrick. She worried for him. He had been near the beach when the floodwaters came. Trooper Paisley hadn’t known much more than she did—only that, if they were safe, the helicopter would be ready in another six hours. As soon as it could launch, they would come looking.

The longer she sat in the silence, the more she began to hear. The rain, tapping in an uneven rhythm. The soft hum of the electric motor. The creak of the suspension as the trailer swayed. It all blended into an odd sort of dance, a lullaby to a strange new world.

Her eyes grew heavy, and sleep slipped in beside her, quiet and kind.


/////
Magnus was beginning to wonder if being stuck on an asteroid—or just drifting in space aboard a ship—might be better than this. Three hours of trudging through relentless rain would dampen anyone’s spirits, he mused.

Here he was, on a brand-new planet, the kind of thing people back home dreamed of. He should have been excited. But he wasn’t.
Something was happening to him. Something he didn’t understand.

He worried, quietly, that he might end up like Oren.

Lillian had tried to talk to him about the tree—about what it might mean—but he’d brushed her off. He regretted that now. She was kind. Gentle. Maybe she could’ve helped him understand. But what could he say to her? He didn’t have answers. And besides, she’d left with the children in the trailers, heading for the next camp.

“Yes. We go,” Oren said cheerfully.

Magnus hadn’t even noticed the man approach. Oren had a way of appearing, just being, without warning.

The strange man had been drifting through the caravan all morning. Most people were used to him now. He even had a small crowd following him. There were always two troopers—Tomas, he noticed, and this time a woman named Paisley. A few civilians trailed along behind, whispering among themselves. Some claimed Oren had saved their lives by telling them where to go.

Others whispered that he was the cause of all this.

“Yes, we did,” Magnus muttered, then asked, “But to where, Oren?”

Oren only smirked. It was like looking in a mirror that didn’t quite reflect you. Magnus wasn’t sure if he liked it… or was just getting used to it.

“You see. Yes. You see,” Oren said with a knowing nod.

Magnus didn’t press him. Pressing Oren never worked. He spoke in riddles—or not at all. His cryptic answers might as well be grunts or snorts for all the sense they made. But if there was one thing Magnus understood, it was that Oren wanted them to keep moving.

Fine. He would go.

He filled his canteen, grabbed one of the field rations, and kept walking. There was no use waiting for a ride; there wasn’t enough space on the trailers for everyone. Besides, it was barely halfway through the day, judging by the sun’s position.

Oren ran ahead, calling to others to follow. Magnus didn’t want anyone to follow him. He didn’t even know where he was going.

As he walked, he studied the land. The rain had washed away the sand in places, revealing grooved layers of sandstone over a bedrock of pale granite. It was oddly beautiful, this battered wilderness.

And still he walked.
Step after step in soaked-through fatigues that claimed to be “waterproof.” There was no such thing.

He thought about isolation.
He’d never truly felt it until now.

Even in the depths of space, there were supply ships. There was always a connection—always a destination. A return trip. Even in the endless black, there was somewhere to escape to.

But here? There was no going back.
No cities. No towns.
Just rain.
Just this road.

Escape. That was what this place was supposed to be—an escape from the swarm.
So why did it feel more like a dead end?

Eventually the terrain began to change again. The rain slowed, and the blue-spined bushes returned, poking out of the damp sand like barbed sentinels.

Magnus chuckled dryly.
At least the dust was staying down.

“Mind if I walk with you?” a voice said behind him.

Magnus turned to find Daphne, her hood pulled low against the rain.

“I thought you'd be farther ahead,” he said.

“I was,” she replied. “But Oren waved me down. Said I should walk.”

Magnus raised an eyebrow. “He tell you why?”

“Something about birds,” she said, half-laughing. “Said I’d hear them soon. Told me to follow the sound.”

“Birds,” Magnus muttered. “Right. You actually got an answer from him?”

“If you could call it an answer.”

“You ever feel like we’re changing into something? Like Oren? You know, because of that dream under the tree, the second night.”

She glanced sideways. “I’ve got a feeling we won’t become what Oren has become. But we are changing—adapting to the environment. It’s like this rain. I can feel every drop, every splash. There’s an aura to each one, like the aura I see around you and Lillian.”

“An aura, you say. I have to admit—I saw one around you right after the flood, when you were splinting that ankle. You kind of flared for a moment. When I look at Oren, I see something similar, but… it’s a different hue.”

They walked in silence for a few moments. Then Magnus glanced over at Daphne again. The aura—he could see it now, flaring brightly around her. The rain around him seemed to ease. Daphne was staring at him, dazed, as if deep in concentration.

Then the glow vanished, and the rain resumed falling on him.

“Did I divert the rain?” she asked. “It felt like I did. Did you notice?”

“Yeah, I noticed. What did you do? You flared for a few moments.”

That’s when Oren returned, his usual retinue in tow. He seemed cheerful as he trotted up, looked at Magnus, and said, “Yes, you see!” Then off he went again.

“He’s giving those people a run for their money,” Daphne said. “Probably walks two miles for every one we walk.”

She turned back to him. “All I did to the rain was concentrate. Then I imagined an umbrella, kept making it bigger. I could feel the rain run off it. You try. I’ll watch.”

“Okay, I guess.” Magnus really didn’t like the rain—all he felt was wet. But he did as she asked. He tried to feel the rain. Each drop. Each splash.

The more he focused, the more he noticed—each drop held a speck of dust at its center. He imagined the umbrella. Imagined how great it would be to shed this rain.

But the rain didn’t stop. If anything, it fell harder.

“All I feel is wet,” he grumbled.

“I saw your aura blaze,” Daphne said. “But I didn’t notice anything else.”

Magnus glanced over again. The rain no longer touched her shoulders. She glowed with a soft intensity for a moment—then dimmed, and the rain resumed landing on her.

“Wow, that’s hard work,” she said. “I felt like I was going to faint.”

“So, Captain.”

“Oh, please—call me Daphne.”

“Okay, Daphne it is. Do you know what’s ahead? From what I understand, there were scouts sent ahead?”

“Yeah. The scouts—Specialists, actually—reported finding a body of water from the top of a hill about…” She paused for a moment, thinking. “This next camp is about forty miles from the beach. And the hill is around eighty miles from there. So we’re about halfway to the hill. They’re going to have to go over it on foot to get to the water before they can test it. They said the water was another ten miles beyond that.”

Magnus was not enthusiastic about the news. How many more steps? How many more days? Even if they found water, they’d need shelter and food.

There was nothing else to do but walk. So walk he did, concentrating on placing the next soggy step.

Eventually, they reached the second camp—if it could be called that. There were five large pavilions that could hold about a hundred people if crammed in, and about fifty smaller wall tents that might hold ten. The rest of the tents and pavilions they’d had were washed away from the first camp.

The stacks of supplies looked dismally small.

Magnus decided he’d continue on after a short break. Maybe get some dry clothes and take a nap.

/////

Jor stared at the pile of large boulders that now occupied the spot where Vexxen had been standing just moments before. The air was thick with dust, drifting slowly to the ground. The rockslide had nearly blocked the path. Tarlin was already climbing the pile, searching for any sign of Vexxen—but there was none. The boulders were too large to move by hand. Vexxen had been a good soldier. He would be missed.

With a quiet determination, Tarlin picked up a rock and began scratching Vexxen's name into the largest boulder:
"R.I.P. Vexxen. You will be remembered for your sacrifice."

After a long silence, Jor asked, “Are you ready to continue?”
There was no gain in returning down the mountain—they still had a mission to complete. Shelter and fresh water were the only priorities now. He looked to the sky. Dark clouds were gathering. They would need cover soon.

As Jor and Tarlin crested the rise, they saw the valley below—where waterfalls cascaded in the distance. It would be a long hike before they could test the water. The descent into the valley was treacherous, the path strewn with boulders. As they moved carefully downward, startled gray lizards darted away, vanishing between stones. Brighter, more ominous creatures were also present: vividly colored snakes that didn’t flee when approached, forcing them to watch every step to avoid a bite.

Rain began to fall, making the rocks slick and slowing their pace even further. Inch by careful inch, they worked their way down, winding around the boulders toward the canyon floor. Gradually, rock gave way to life—strange, blue vegetation carpeted the ground. The grass was unlike anything Jor had imagined: it moved on its own, independent of wind. They avoided the taller blades, which reached for their legs, choosing instead to walk through the shorter, more passive patches.

Jor glanced back at the hill they had descended. He hoped there might be a better way down in the future, but saw no clear alternative. The soft ground beneath them was covered in a thick carpet of moss-like growth that, thankfully, didn’t react to their footsteps. Where this growth appeared, the grasping grass did not. It seemed to offer a natural path across the valley.

Neither Jor nor Tarlin had spoken since entering the strange vegetation. Their only communication was a hand-sign language, one taught only to Specialists. They followed what appeared to be a game trail. Tarlin, raised by the Hunantu tribe—a nomadic people from the jungles of Parsenla—moved with practiced ease. Some would call his people primitive, but Jor knew few others more suited to this terrain. They walked quietly, mindful not to alert any unseen creatures to their presence.

After nearly an hour of cautious travel, a faint stench of rotten eggs tinged the air. They reached a narrow stream of warm, yellow-tinged water. Jor retrieved a water testing kit and filled a sampling tube. The result: low mineral content, safe levels of calcium and magnesium, no heavy metals or known pathogens—but trace sulfur levels meant it wasn’t potable.

They crossed the stream and followed the growing roar of falling water. Eventually, they came upon it: a towering cliff of green-swirled marble, arched overhead like a protective canopy. Rain still fell beyond it, but here they had shelter. A clear pool formed from the base of the waterfall, feeding a steady stream that flowed toward the distant river.

Jor tested the water. The results came back clean.
Finally, good water.
And maybe… a place to stay.

/////

Major Jessrick Varo set with General Brandenshen of the Home Guard and Air Admiral Max Jaykal of the Specialist in the large pavillion That had become the defacto head quarters.  General Branden shen was officialy in charge of the operation, the specialist were there only by happenstance because of the audit disguised as  cadet training. So far the Admiral had been pleased at what he had found back at the compound on Terrell and had let the General make the calls even though Jessrick new that the Generals commands could be overidin by the two Specialist that accompanied empamsized the notion. The Specialist had what you called a reputation, they were known to solve problems.

"Major Varo, you will pilot the chopper as soon as it is ready. Unless, Admiral, you would like to fly it? Jessrick is qualified to fly but he does not have your experience."  The general asked.

"No, the Major is more than adequate. I will stay here and leave the adventures to someone else. I just want to know if you can do it without GPS Major?"

"It should be no problem. It should take about fours to go all the way to the lake that was reported and back. If everything goes as plan I'll be back before dark." The Admirial was not in Jor's chain of command but the respect was merited.

"Great, sounds like a plan. the General said."We only have to wait another five days before SAT-NAV will be operational. I can't wait to see the imagery, Find out if we are alone on this planet or not."

The Admiral looked at the General,before saying, "I bet there is no technological civilization. I've not heard of any aircraft since we've been here, nor have I seen any satellites in the sky, nor have we found anything on any bandwidth."

There really wasn't much to talk about at the meeting, so Jessrick waited for time to pass by listening to the rain fall on the shelter. The rain wasn’t heavy—more a steady, persistent curtain than a downpour—but it clung to everything, turned footsteps into squelches, and painted the air with a dull gray wash. From the edge of the knoll where the tents were anchored, the world beyond looked like a flooded ruin: stripped hillsides, scattered debris, and a river swollen wide and slow with silt. The sand was gone—washed clean down to bedrock. What remained was a chunk of ancient stone jutting up above the floodplain, isolated and solitary.

He looked east, where the muddy river meandered away. Somewhere out there, refugees were on foot, headed inland. Somewhere further, cadets were marching. And beyond even that, Jor and Tarlin were holed up in the cliffs past the ridgeline.

“You sure about this?” General Brandeshen asked, arms crossed as he stared up at the clouds. “We’ve got no satellite coverage yet. No idea what the weather might do out there. If it turns bad—really bad—I want you to set her down and wait it out. Don’t get clever.”

Major Jessrick Varo gave a short nod. “Understood. I’ll keep it cautious.”

The general stepped back, and Jessrick approached the nanobot-grown helicopter. Its dark alloy skin gleamed with fresh rain. It was sleek, all curves and quiet hums—four seats, twin rotors, and barely a seam visible where the hull had fused itself together from the crate they'd activated three days ago. Fully grown. Fully armed. Fully ready.

Behind them, the helicopter sat humming low to itself. It had been growing ever since the crate was activated on day one. Now complete—a narrow four-seater with a nose like a hawk and fresh skids that still shimmered with moisture—it looked too light to be real. Built by nanobots, every panel fused with purpose, it had no serial number and no manual. It just worked.

Jessrick climbed in and ran his fingers across the console. The systems came alive, one at a time. The interface blinked.

    “A.I. Assist active. Satellite uplink unavailable. Local sensors nominal. Manual override engaged.”

“Good enough,” he muttered.

He flipped through the checklist. “Fuel, rotor, stabilizer, nav... Looks good.”

He set a heading to follow the river due east and keyed the assist to maintain low altitude. Clouds pressed low, gray and grumbling, and the ceiling looked like maybe two hundred feet if he was lucky. He gave a thumbs-up to the general and lifted off. “Let’s see what the world looks like.”

The skids lifted clean, rotors slicing rain, and the knoll dropped out from beneath him. It had been the only dry thing for miles—a single giant slab of granite left behind after the tsunami scoured the coast. The sand was gone, ripped away to reveal cracked stone and raw bedrock. Walking out from there would’ve been nearly impossible, even without the logjam: massive trees twisted into each other along the shore, a jagged barricade half-submerged in gray water.

Jessrick flew low, hugging the curve of the river as it wandered east. The water was wide and muddy, crawling along like it carried the weight of the flood on its back. The land to either side was soft, stripped, and broken. Here and there, long tears in the earth marked where sand had been dragged out to sea.

A couple dozen miles in, he spotted them. A long line of civilians walking inland, huddled beneath ponchos and scraps of canvas. Jessrick dropped lower and circled once before spotting the comms flag bobbing near the front.

He switched to short-range and keyed his mic. “Lieutenant Shores, this is Major Varo. You copy?”

A moment passed before the reply came, static and strained. “Shores here. You’re flying?”

“Just got airborne. You’re twenty-five miles out—line looks steady. Any injuries?”

“One broken ankle. Sergeant Karls Carson was rescued, Him and one of the teachers from the Academy, His legs were paralyzed from the blue spines when he was washed away rescuing a first aid trunk.The effects are starting to wear of. Five missing the Governor one of them. Other than that just sore feet and bad moods. You overhead?”

“Affirmative. I’ll scout further ahead. Keep the line moving.”

As Jessrick banked east again, low beneath the gray ceiling, a line of dark, boxy shapes caught his eye winding steadily along a muddy path.

The land trains.

Big six-wheeled buggies, hauling cargo in towed trailers, lumbered forward like tired beasts. Some of the troopers walked alongside, others rode with salvaged gear or sat with the injured. From altitude, they looked like a segmented insect crawling inland through the mist, still 15 miles out from Camp Two.

He keyed the shortband. “Lieutenant Shores, Varo again. I’ve got eyes on the land trains. You’re twenty-five miles out—line looks steady. Any injuries?”

“One broken ankle. Sergeant Karls Carson was rescued—him and one of the teachers from the Academy. His legs were paralyzed from the blue spines when he was washed away rescuing a first aid trunk. The effects are starting to wear off. Five still missing—the Governor’s one of them. Other than that, just sore feet and bad moods. You overhead?”

“Affirmative. I’ll scout further ahead. Keep the line moving.”

He throttled up and continued east, staying low. Ten minutes later, as the terrain began to rise slightly, the rain thinned. Ahead, nestled along a gravel ridge untouched by flood, came a welcome sight.

Camp Two.

Unlike the wreckage left behind, this site was dry—well-chosen, well-prepared, and fully intact. Five large pavilions had been set up in an orderly line near the base of a rocky outcrop, with nearly fifty smaller wall tents forming a neat grid. There were even stacks of weather-sealed crates under canvas tarps—extra food, water purification equipment, medical supplies, and tools. Someone had already diverted runoff with shallow trenches, and smoke rose from two makeshift stoves.

Jessrick circled once. The camp was alive.

And there she was—Lillian. She stood in the open, raincoat hanging unzipped, pointing toward a pavilion and giving instructions to a team of older kids unloading crates from one of the transports. Her hair was tied back in a tight knot, and though he couldn't hear her voice, he saw the way they listened.

He keyed up again. “Camp Two, this is Major Jessrick Varo inbound. Can I get a status update from the site liaison?”

A calm voice answered, slightly staticky. “Camp Two receiving. This is Trooper Paisley Tenvar, military liaison. All Academy faculty and students accounted for and present. No injuries beyond mild exposure. All registered parents are here with their children.”

“Copy that, Trooper. Excellent work. Tell Principal Lillian she’s got eyes overhead. I’ll relay your position to the next group and continue east.”

“Understood, Major. Good flying.”

Jessrick let the chopper hover another few seconds—just long enough to mark the camp’s position clearly in his mind. Then he turned east again, heading for the cadets.

Still more ground to cover. But he’d remember where she was.

Jessrick banked east again and pulled altitude slightly. The river curved, pulling him over sloped terrain that climbed steadily. At fifty-five miles, movement below caught his eye—spaced in clusters, disciplined and ordered.

The cadets progress impressed Jessrick that they had made it that far in two days.

Groups of twenty, spread every few hundred yards, with small clusters of Specialists guiding them forward. It was wet and slow, but they were still marching. Jessrick brought the chopper low enough to be seen.

He keyed in again, scanning for someone near the front. “Specialist Draelen, this is Major Varo. Confirm visual.”

Another pause. Then, “We see you, sir. What’s the status?”

“Civilians are behind you by thirty miles. Your Admiral is safe. You’re still to continue  east.”

“Yes, sir. We’ve kept them moving. Five groups, twenty each. Terrain’s relatively easy still. We've  it a competition between the Squads.”

“Keep it up. You’re doing good.”

“Copy that. Safe flying, sir.”

Jessrick tipped his nose eastward again. The terrain shifted fast—hills thick with mist, rising into long ridges that forked and twisted like the fingers of a buried hand. He couldn’t go over them. Cloud cover swallowed the tops. Instead, he found a notch between two of the “fingers” and dropped into the pass, the walls climbing on either side as he weaved through, careful to keep below the clouds.

Then the fog came.

Thick and sudden, it closed in like a second skin. He slowed to a crawl, rotors thudding above him, and keyed his narrowband comms.

“Specialist Jor Brady, this is Major Varo. Fog’s too thick to see. Requesting vector.”

A long pause.

Then Jor’s voice, clear and firm. “Major, you're close. We’re tucked against the base of a cliff, five thousand feet long, three hundred high. There’s a pool just below the falls—land there if you can.”

“Copy that. Anything else I need to know?”

“Yes. Stay off the grass.”

Jessrick blinked. “Come again?”

“The valley grass—long yellow-green blades, looks harmless. It’ll snag gear, boots, even rotor cables if you hover too low. It grabs. Stick to the moss patch by the pool—nothing else.”

“Understood. Coming in now.”

He eased the helicopter forward. The fog thinned just enough to show movement—water tumbling from a cliff, a white line cutting through gray. Below, a shallow pool shimmered like glass. He spotted the moss—a dull green smear on wet rock—and nudged the chopper into place.

Skids kissed stone.

Engines wound down. Jessrick sat in silence a moment, watching the rain as it tapped the windshield. The rotor ticked slower and slower.

He had made it.

But something told him the hardest part was still ahead.


/////

Chapter : Water in the Wake

Daphne – Mile 25

The thrum came first—low, steady, unnatural. Daphne shaded her eyes and spotted the helicopter as it broke through the low ceiling. A flash of metallic skin, nanogrown and alien against the mist, streaked overhead before vanishing into cloud again.

She watched it go, brow furrowed. Jessrick was up there, piloting that thing. Maybe he saw them. Maybe he didn’t.

Oren stood a few paces away, arms folded tightly. His borrowed poncho flapped around his shoulders, the hem caked with mud.

He made a soft sound in his throat—not pain. Not awe. Irritation?

“You don’t like it?” she asked.

He looked at her sideways. His eyes, black and too still, didn’t blink. “Wrong shape,” he muttered. “Wrong time.”

“Because it’s technology?”

Oren’s voice came rough and short, like gravel pulled from a well. “It… shouldn’t be here. Not after… all this.” He gestured vaguely at the sky, the rain, the land itself. “Machines… broke this place. Planet… fought back.”

She frowned. “That wasn’t us.”

He didn’t respond. But he didn’t look up either—not once. Just kept walking, poncho dripping, jaw tight. She realized he hadn’t reacted to the rain at all—not with discomfort, not with gratitude.

They continued forward. The path was a slick gash through the forest, churned by hundreds of boots. The tsunami had hit only hours earlier, and its mark was everywhere—branches stripped, roots laid bare, the soft smell of silt and broken greenery rising through the damp.

A shredded corner of a tent clung to a branch. That was it. No structures. No wrecked carts. Nothing had been here before they arrived—just a wounded, waking world.

Magnus caught up to her, his boots squelching but solid. He hadn’t lost them after all. His eyes were sharp, quiet.

“You feel that?” he asked.

“The rain?”

“No. The ground. Feels... deep.”

She tilted her head. “Like it could pull you under?”

“Yeah. But not bad. Like... it knows me.”

She didn’t reply for a moment. She was still holding the rain off her body, letting it slide in sheets around her without soaking through. “This takes effort,” she admitted. “Keeping the water off. Like holding my breath in a moving current.”

Magnus nodded, his expression unreadable. “Second night. Tree again. Roots everywhere.”

“Mine flooded,” she said softly. “Storm came inside me. I thought I’d drown. But it didn’t take me. It... changed me.”

He looked at her. “Burned. But I didn’t. I opened.”

Their eyes met. The same strangeness. The same shift.

“You think Oren knows what’s happening to us?” she asked.

Ahead, Oren stopped walking. “Not know,” he said, voice clipped. “Feel. Like wind before fire.”

She exchanged a glance with Magnus. Oren didn’t sound angry. Just unfinished.

At mile thirty, the wreckage gave way to new green. The planet was already reclaiming itself—ferns curling through mud, vines inching along broken roots, water rushing clearer. Daphne slid her digitab from its waterproof sling and brought up her logistics overlay.

Two buggies. Three trailers each. Ten people per trailer. Sixty per run. twenty-mile trips. About four hours round trip, depending on terrain and rain.

She adjusted her estimate: if they leapfrogged forward in stages—Camp Two at forty, Camp Three at sixty, Camp Four at eighty—they could move everyone forward over the next five to six days. It would be tight. They had food for maybe two months. Any delays—landslides, injuries, mechanical failure—could tip the balance.

She marked the most vulnerable civilians. Updated energy reserves. Flagged priority cargo. Her fingers moved quickly, the rhythm of order grounding her. When she finished, she dimmed the screen and tucked it away.

Camp Two appeared just before dusk—prefab walls, tents arranged in careful grids, lanterns strung low along tarp lines. Someone had scrawled a sign in marker and propped it up with rocks:

WELCOME TO TWO
Coffee isn’t magic. We’re just out.

Daphne smiled in spite of herself. Relief tasted like wet canvas and woodsmoke.

They had made it. Forty miles. No deaths today.

She looked at Oren, who was already watching the western horizon, toward the cliffs they’d soon have to face.

And for the first time, she thought she saw something flicker in him.

Not fear. Not distrust.

Expectation.














 
